COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT   19-2071 -91 UNITE DHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
STUDENT HEALTH  INSURANCE  PLAN  
 
CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE  
 
Designed Especially for the Students of  
 
 
University of Maryland – College Park  
 
 
 
2023 -2024  
 
 
 
 
This Certificate of Coverage is Part of Policy  # 2023 -2071 -91 
 
This Certificate of Coverage (“Certificate”) is part of the contract  between UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Company ,” “We,” “Us,” and “Our” ) and the Policyholder.   
 
This Certificate is not a Medi care Supplement Certificate. It is not designed to fill the ‘gaps’ of Medicare. 
If you are eligible for Medicare, review the Medicare supplement buyer’s guide available from the 
Company.  
 
Please keep t his Certificate as an explan ation of  the benefits available to the Insured Person under the contract between 
the Company  and the Policyholder.  This Certificate is not a contract between the Insured Person and the Company.  
Amendments or endorsements may be delivered with the Certificate or added thereafter.  The Master Policy is on file  with 
the Policyholder  and contains all of the provisions, limitations, exclusions, and qualifications of your insurance benefits, 
some of which may not be included in this Certificate.  The Master Policy is t he contract and will govern and control the 
payment of benefits.  
 
READ THIS ENTIRE CERTIFICATE CAREFULLY.  IT DESCRIBES THE BENEFITS AVAILABLE UNDER THE POLICY.  
IT IS THE INSURED PERSON’S RESPONSIBILITY TO UNDERSTAND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN THIS  
CERTI FICATE.  
 
                                 
 
President  
 
Administered by UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources  
P.O. Box 809025  
Dallas, Texas 75380 -9025  
 
 
 
 
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  Table of Contents  
Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  1 
Section 1: Who Is  Covered  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  1 
Section 2: Effective and Termination Dates  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  1 
Section 3: Extension of Benefits after Termination  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  2 
Section 4: Pre -Admission Notification  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 2 
Section 5: Preferred Provider and Out -of-Network Provider Information  ................................ ................................ ...............  3 
Section 6: Medical Expense Benefits  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 6 
Section 7: Mand ated Benefits  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  16 
Section 8: Coordination of Benefits Provision  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  18 
Section 9: Definitions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  22 
Section 10: Exclusions and Limitations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 29 
Section 11: How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness Benefits  ................................ ................................ ........................  31 
Section 12: General Provisions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  31 
Section 13: Notice of Complaint Process for Coverage Decisions  ................................ ................................ .......................  32 
Section 14 Maryland Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act Subscriber Notice  ................................ ......................  37 
Section 15: Online Access to Account Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  37 
Section 16: ID Cards  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  37 
Section 17: UHCSR Mobile App  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  37 
Section 18: Important Company Contact Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  38 
Section 19: Pediatric Dental Services Benefit  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  38 
Section 20: Pediatr ic Vision Services Benefit  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  24 
 
Additional Policy Documents  
Schedule of Benefits  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  Attachment  
UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy (UHCP) Prescription Drug Benefits  ................................ ................................ ........  Attachment  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  1  Introduction  
Welcome to the UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources Student Health  Insurance Plan.  This plan is underwritten  by 
UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company.  
 
The school (referred to as the “Policyholder”) has purchased a Policy from the Company .  The Company  will provide the 
benefits described in this Certificate to Insured Persons, as defined in the Definitions section of this Certificate.  This 
Certificate is not a contract between the Insured Per son and the Company.  Keep this Certificate with other important papers 
so that it is available for future reference.  
 
Please feel free to call the Customer Service Department with any questions about the plan.  The telephone number is 1 -
800-767-0700.  The Insured can also write to the Company at: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources  
P.O. Box 809025  
Dallas, TX 75380 -9025  
 
Section 1 : Who Is Covered  
The Master Policy  covers students  and their eligible Dependents who have met the Policy’s eligibility requirements (as 
shown below) and who:  
 
1. Are properly enrolled in the plan , and  
2. Pay the required premium.  
 
All domestic undergraduate students enrolled in six or more credi t hours, all international undergraduate students and 
Graduate students that are classified as full time (48 units for the semester, 36 units for the 12 -week terms) are required to 
purchase this insurance plan unless proof of comparable coverage is furnish ed.  
 
All part -time graduate students, non -degree seeking students, students enrolled in certificate programs, Special Master 
Program (J1), Research Scholars, International Exchange Students, Leave of Absences, Summer Program (SROP), 
exclusively online pro grams, and/or programs at the Shady Grove campus are not required to purchase this insurance plan 
but can if they elect to.  
 
Eligible students who do enroll may also insure their Dependents. Eligible Dependents are the student’s legal spouse or 
Domestic Pa rtner and dependent children under 26 years of age , including a grandchild, a child placed with the Insured for 
legal adoption, a child of a Domestic Partner, a child for whom the Named Insured is under testamentary or court appointed 
guardianship, other t han temporary guardianship of less than 12 months duration, or a child for whom the Named Insured 
is under a court order to provide coverage . A Dependent shall also mean a Dependent  of the Insured , under 26 years of 
age, as the term is used in 26 U.S.C. §1 04, 105, 106, and any regulations adopted under those sections. See the Definitions 
section of this Certificate for the specific requirements needed to meet Domestic Partner eligibility.  
 
The student (Named Insured, as defined in this Certificate) must act ively attend classes for at least the first 31 days after 
the date for which coverage is purchased. Home study, correspondence, and online courses do not fulfill the eligibility 
requirements  that the student actively attend classes. The Company maintains i ts right to investigate eligibility or student 
status and attendance records to verify that the Policy eligibility requirements have been met.  If and whenever the Company 
discovers that the Policy eligibility requirements have not been met, its only oblig ation is refund of premium.  
 
The eligibility date for Dependents of the Named Insured shall be determined in accordance with the following:  
 
1. If a Named Insured has Dependents on the date he or she is eligible for insurance.  
2. If a Named Insured acquires a Dependent after the Effective Date, such Dependent becomes eligible:  
a. On the date the Named Insured acquires a legal spouse or a Domestic Partner who meet s the specific 
requirements set forth in the Definitions section of this Certificate.  
b. On the  date the Named Insured acquires a dependent child who is within the limits of a dependent child set 
forth in the Definitions section of this Certificate.  
 
Dependent eligibility expires concurrently with that of the Named Insured.  
 
Section 2 : Effective and Termination Date s  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  2  The Master Policy on file at the school becomes effective at 12:01 a.m.  Eastern Time , August 1, 20 23. The Insured Person’s  
coverage becomes effective on the first day of the period for which premium is paid or the date the e nrollment form and full 
premium are received by the Company (or its authorized representative), whichever is later.  
 
The Master Policy terminates at 11:59 p.m.  Eastern Time , July 31 , 2024. The Insured Person’s coverage terminates on that 
date or on the las t day of the grace period  following the period through which premium is paid, whichever is earlier , if the 
premium due is not paid by the last day of the grace period . Dependent coverage will not be effective prior to that of the 
Insured student or extend beyond that of the Insured student.  
 
There is no pro-rata or reduced premium payment for late enrollees.   Refunds of premiums are allowed only upon entry into 
the armed forces.  
 
The Master Policy is a non -renewable one year term insurance policy.  The Mast er Policy will not be renewed.  
 
Section 3 : Extension of Benefits after Termination  
The coverage provided under the Policy ceases on the Termination Date.  However, if an Insured is Totally Disable d on the 
Termination Date from a covered Injury or Sickness for which benefits are payable before the Termination Date, Covered 
Medical Expenses for such Injury or Sickness will continue to be paid as long as the Insured remains Totally Disabled but 
not to exceed 12 months  after the Termination D ate. Proof of total disability may be required at any time.  
 
The coverage provided under the Policy ceases on the Termination Date. However, if an Insured is Hospital Confined on 
the Termination Date from a covered In jury or Sickness for which benefits are payable  before the Termination Date, Covered 
Medical Expenses for such Injury or Sickness will continue to be paid as long as the condition continues bu t not to exceed 
12 months  after the Termination Date.  
 
If an Insured begins a course of Dental Treatment before the Termination Date and requires two or more visits on separate 
days to a dentist’s office, Covered Medical Expenses for such course of treatment will continue to be paid but not to exceed 
90 days  after the Termination Date.  
 
If an Insured is receiving orthodontic treatment for which benefits are payable before the Termination Date, Covered Medical 
Expenses for such orthodontic treatment will be covered in one of the following methods:  
• For 60 days after the date coverage terminates when the orthodontic provider has agreed to or is receiving monthly 
payments.  
• Until the later of 60 days after the date coverage terminates or the end of the quarter in progress, if the orthodontists 
has agreed to ac cept or is receiving payments on a quarterly basis.  
 
After this Extension of Benefits provision has been exhausted, all benefits cease to exist, and under no circumstances will 
further payments be made.  
 
Section 4 : Pre-Admission Notification  
UnitedHealthca re should be notified of all Hospital Confinements as indicated below:  
 
1. PRE-NOTIFICATION OF MEDICAL NON -EMERGENCY HOSPITALIZATIONS : The patient, Physicia n or Hospital 
should telephone 1 -877-295-0720  at least five working days prior to the planned admission.  
 
2. NOTIFICATION OF MEDICAL EMERGENCY ADMISSIONS : The patient, patient’s representative, Physicia n or 
Hospital should telephone 1 -877-295-0720  within two working days of the admission to provide noti fication of any 
admission due to Medical Emergency.  
  
UnitedHealthcare  is open for Pre -Admission Notification calls from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. C.S.T., Monday through Friday.  
Calls may be left on the Customer Service Department’s voice mail after hours by calling 1 -877-295-0720.  
 
IMPORTANT:  Failure to follow the notification procedures will not affect benefits otherwise payable under the Policy; 
however, pre -notification is not a guaran tee that benefits will be paid.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  3   
Section 5 : Preferred Provider  and Out -of-Network Provider  Information  
This plan is a preferred provider organization or “PPO” plan.  It provides a higher level of coverage when Covered Medical 
Expenses are received from healthcare providers who are part of the plan’s n etwork of Prefer red Providers. The plan also 
provides coverage when Covered Medical Expenses are obtained from healthcare providers who are not Preferred 
Providers, known as Out -of-Network Providers.  However, a lower level of coverage may be provided when care is receive d 
from Out -of-Network Providers and the Insured Person may be responsible for paying a greater portion of the cost.  
 
Preferred Providers in the local school area are:  
 
UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus  
 
Preferred Provider Hospitals include UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus  United Behavioral Health (UBH) facilities.  
 
The easiest way to locate Preferred Providers is through the plan’s website at www.uhcsr.com. The website will allow the 
Insured to easily search for providers by specialty and location.  
 
The Insured may also call the Customer Service Department at 1 -800-767-0700 for assistance in finding a Preferred 
Provider.  
 
The Company arranges for health care providers to take part in the Preferred Provider ne twork.  Preferred Providers are 
independent practitioners.  They are not employees of the Company.  It is the Insured’s responsibility to choose a provider.  
Our credentialing process confirms public information about the providers’ licenses and other cred entials but does not 
assure the quality of the services provided.  
 
A provider’s status may change.  Insureds should always confirm that a Preferred Provider is participating at the time services 
are required by calling Customer Service at 1-800-767-0700 and /or by asking the provider when making an appointment 
for services.  A directory of providers is available on the plan’s website at www.uhcsr.com.  
 
If an Insured receives a Covered Medical Expense from an Out -of-Network Provider and was informed incorrectly by the 
Company prior to receipt of the Covered Medical Expense that the provider was a Preferred Provider, either through Our 
provider directory o r in Our response to the Insured’s request for such information (via telephone, electronic, web -based or 
internet -based means), the Insured will be eligible for cost -sharing (Copayment, Coinsurance, and applicable Deductible) 
that would be no greater than if the service had been provided from a Preferred Provider.  Any cost share paid by the Insured 
Person for these services will be counted toward the applicable Preferred Provider Deductible and Preferred Provider Out -
of-Pocket Maximum.  
 
A Continuing Care Pa tient receiving care for Covered Medical Expenses from a Preferred Provider may choose to continue 
to receive transitional care from such provider if the Preferred Provider’s contract is terminated due to non -renewal or 
expiration. The Continuing Care Pati ent will be eligible to request transitional care from their current provider under the 
same terms and conditions that would have applied prior to termination of the provider’s contract for specified conditions 
and timeframes.  This provision does not appl y to provider contract terminations for failure to meet applicable quality 
standards or for fraud.   
 
If the contract between the Company and the Policyholder terminates resulting in a loss of benefits with respect to a 
Preferred Provider, the Company  will notify each Insured who is a Continuing Care Patient at the time of termination or non -
renewal on a timely basis of such termination and the Insured’s right to choose transitional care .  
 
An Insured may call the Company at 1 -800-767-0700 to find out if the y are considered a Continuing Care Patient, as defined 
in this Certificate, and are eligible for continuity of care benefits.  
 
“Preferred Provider Benefits ” apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by a Preferred Provider.  
 
“Out-of-Network Provider Benefits ” apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by an Out -of-Network Provider.  
 
The Company will pay Covered Medical Expenses according to the benefits set forth in the Schedule of Benefit s. Regardless 
of the provider, each Insured is responsible for the payment of their Deductible.  The Company will pay according to the 
benefit limits in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
Allowed Amounts are the amounts the Company will pay for Covered Medical Expenses.  Refer to the definition of Allowed 
Amount in this Certificate for information on how the Company determines Allowed Amounts.    
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  4   
Preferred Provider Benefits  
The Insured is not responsible for any difference between what the Company pays for Allowed Amounts and the amoun t 
the provider bills, except for the Insured Person’s cost share obligation as specified in the Schedule of Benefits.   
 
This Certificate includes the following provisions to comply with the applicable requirements of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act (t he “Act”) (P. L. 116 -260).   These provisions reflect requirements of the Act; however, they do not 
preempt applicable state law.   
 
Out-of-Network Provider Benefits  
Except as described below, the Insured Person is responsible for paying, directly to the Out-of-Network Provider, any 
difference between the amount the provider bills the Insured and the amount the Company pays for Allowed Amounts.    
 
1. For Ancillary Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities on a non -Medical Emergency basis from  Out-
of-Network Provider Physicians, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out -of-Network P rovider may not bill the 
Insured, for amounts in excess of the  Insured’s Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the 
Recognized Amount as defined i n this Certificate.   
2. For non -Ancillary Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities on a non -Medical Emergency basis from 
Out-of-Network Provider Physicians who have not satisfied the notice and consent criteria or for unforeseen or 
urgent m edical needs that arise at the time a non -Ancillary Service is provided for which notice and consent has 
been satisfied in accordance with applicable law, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out -of-Network Provider 
may not bill the Insured, for amounts  in excess of the Insu red’s Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible which is 
based on the Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate.   
3. For Emergency Services provided by an Out -of-Network Provider, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out -of-
Networ k Provider may not bill the Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s applicable Copayment, 
Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the rates that would apply if the service was provided by a Preferred 
Provider which is based on the Recognized A mount as defined in this Certificate .   
4. For Air Ambulance services provided by an Out -of-Network Provider, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out -
of-Netw ork Provider may not bill the Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s applicable Copayme nt, 
Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the rates that would apply if the service was provided by a Preferred 
Provider which is based on the Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate.  
 
Any cost share paid by the Insured Person for these serv ices will be counted toward the applicable Preferred Provider 
Deductible and Preferred Provider Out -of-Pocket Maximum.  
 
For the purpose of this provision, “certain Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) of the 
Social Security Act ), a hospital outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) of the Social 
Security Act ), an ambulatory surgical center (as described in section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act ), and any other 
facility specified by the Secretary.  
 
Referral to Out -of-Network Specialist Physician and Non -Physician Specialist in Certain Circ umstances  
Referrals are not required to see Out-of-Network Providers; however , in certain circumstances , a referral may be requested.  
When an Insured Person is diagnosed with a condition or disease that requires specialized health care service s or medical 
care; the Insured may request a referral to a specialist Physician or a non -Physician specialist who is not part of the Preferred 
Provider network if:  
1. The Company does not have in its provider panel a specialist Physician or a non-Physician specialist with the 
professional training and expertise to treat or provide health care services for the Sickness or Injury; or  
2. The Company cannot provide reasonable access to a specialist Physician or a non -Physician specialist with the 
professional training and expertise to treat or provide health care services for the Sickness or Injury without 
unreasonable delay or travel.  
 
Benefits in these two situations will be paid at the Preferred Provider Benefits  level. 
 
Payment to Out -of-Network O n-Call Physicians or Hospital -Based Physicians  
If an out-of-network on -call Physician  or Hospital -based Physician has obtained and accepted an assignment of benefits 
from an Insured and notified the Company of the assignment in the manner prescribed by the Commissioner of Insurance, 
the on -call Physician or Hospital -based Physician may not: 1) collect from the Insured any money owed to the on -call 
Physician or Hospital -based Physician by the Company for covered services rendered to the Insured by the on -call 
Physician or Hospital -based Physician; or 2) maintain any action against the Insured to collect or attempt to collect any 
money owed by the Company for covered services rendered to the Insured by the on -call Physician or Hospital -based 
Physician. The Insu red shall only be liable to the on -call Physician or Hospital -based Physician for any Deductible,  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  5  Copayment, or Coinsurance amount owed by the Insured for covered services rendered to the Insured by the on -call 
Physician or Hospital -based Physician and pay ment or charges for services that are n ot covered services  under the P olicy.  
If Medicare is the primary insurer and the Company is the secondary insurer, the on -call Physician or Hospital -based 
Physician may collect from the Insured any amount up to the Medicare approved or limiting amount, as specified under the 
federal Social Security Act, that is not owed to the on -call Physician or Hospital -based Physician by Medicare or the 
Company after coordination of benefits has been completed.  
 
The Company will pay the on -call Physician or Hospital -based Physician for covered services rendered to an Insured when 
an assignment of benefits has been obtained and accepted and the Company has been notified as required:  1) within 30 
days after receipt of a claim; and 2) in accordance with the reimbursement rates as required by Maryland Insurance Law. 
The Company may seek reimbursement from an Insured for any payment for a claim or portion of a claim submitted by an 
on-call Physician or Hospital -based Physician and paid  by the Company that the Company determines is the responsibili ty 
of the Insured based on the P olicy provisions.  
 
An out-of-network on -call Physician  or a Hospital -based Physician may not balance bill the Insured Person for Covered 
Medical Expenses when th e on-call Physician or Hospital -based Physician has accepted an assignment of  benefits from 
the Insured  and has notified the Company of the assignment.  
 
Assignment of Benefits for Payment to Out -of-Network Physicians Not On -Call or Hospital -Based  
The Company will not: 1) prohibit the assignment of benefits to a Physician by an Insured; or 2) refuse to directly reimburse  
an out-of-network Physician  under an assignment of benefits.  
 
The Company may refuse to directly reimburse an Out-of-Network provi der under an assignment of benefits if: 1) the 
Company receives notice of the assignment of benefits after the time the Company has paid the benefits to the Insured; 2) 
the Company, due to inadvertent administrative errors, has previously paid the Insured;  3) the Insured withdraws the 
assignment of benefits before the Company has paid the benefits to the Out-of-Network Provider; or 4) the Insured paid the 
Out-of-Network Provider the full amount due at the time of service.  
 
Continuity of Care  
At the request of the Insured Person or their parent, guardian, designee or health care provider, the Company will allow a 
new enrollee in the plan to continue to receive Covered Medical Expenses rendered by an Out-of-Network Provider at the 
time of the Insured Persons t ransition to coverage under the P olicy from another carrier’s P olicy for the conditions listed 
below:   
 
1. Acute conditions, which are medical or dental conditions that involve a sudden onset of symptoms due to an Injury, 
Sickness, or any other medical or de ntal problem that requires prompt medical attention and has a limited duration.  
2. A serious chronic condition, which is a medical or dental condition due to a disease, a Sickness, or any other 
medical or dental problem that is serious in nature, persists wit hout full cure or worsens over an extended period of 
time, and is actively managed or supervised by a Physician to maintain remission or prevent deterioration.  
3. Pregnancy.  
4. Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorders.  
5. Any other condition where the Out-of-Network Provider and the Company reach agreement on continuity of care.  
 
Examples of the conditions listed above include:  
 
1. Bone fractures.  
2. Joint replacements.  
3. Heart attacks.  
4. Cancer.  
5. HIV/AIDS.  
6. Organ transplants.  
 
The Company will pay the Out-of-Network Provider the rate and method of payment the Company would normally pay and 
use for Preferred Providers who provide similar services in the same or similar geographic area.   
 
The Out-of-Network Provider may decline t o accept the rate or method of payment by giving 10 days’ prior notice to the 
Insured and Company.  If the Out-of-Network Provider does not accept the rate or method of payment, the Out-of-Network 
Provider and the Company may reach agreement on an alternat ive rate or method of payment for the Covered Medical 
Expenses.  The rates and methods of payment shall:  
 
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  6  1. Be subject to any state or federal requirements applicable to reimbursement for health care providers.  
2. Ensure that the Insured is not subject to balance billing and the Copayment, Deductibles and Coinsurance required 
for the services rendered are the same as those that would be required if the Insured were receiving the services 
from a Preferred Provider.   
If the Out-of-Network Provider does not ac cept the rate and method of compensations specified above the following applies:  
 
1. The Out-of-Network Provider is not required to continue to provide the services.  
2. The Insured may assign benefits to the Out-of-Network Provider and the provider may balance b ill the Insured to 
the extent as if this provision did not exist.  
3. Unless the Insured has assigned benefits to the Out-of-Network Provider, the Company shall facilitate transition of 
the Insured to a Preferred Provider.  
 
At the request of the Insured Person, or the Insured Person’s parent, guardian, designee, or health care provider; the 
Company will accept a preauthorization  from a relinquishing carrier for procedures, treatments, medications, or services 
covered under the benefits offered by the Company, within the following time periods:  
 
1. The lesser of the course of treatment or 90 days; and  
2. The duration of the three trimes ters of a pregnancy and the initial postpartum visit.  
 
Section 6 : Medical Expense Benefits  
This section describes Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are available.  Please refer to the attached Schedule 
of Benefits for benefit details.  
 
Benefits a re payable for Covered Medical Expenses (see Definitions) less any Deductible incurred by or for an Insured 
Person for loss due to Injury or Sickness subject to: a) the maximum amount for specific services  as set forth in the Schedule 
of Benefits; and b) any Coinsurance  or Copayment  amount s set forth in the Schedule of Benefits or any benefit provision  
hereto. Read the Definitions section and the Exclusions and Limitations section carefully.   
 
Benefits are payable for services delivered via Telemedicine/Te lehealth.  Benefits for these services are provided to the 
same extent as an in -person service under any applicable benefit category in this section.  
 
No benefits will be paid for services designated as "No Benefits" in the Schedule of Benefits or for any matter described in 
Exclusions and Limitations.  If a benefit is designated, Covered Medical Expenses include:  
 
Inpatient  
 
1. Room and Board Expense . 
The rate approved by the Health Services Cost Review Commission (HSCRC) for facilities in the state of Marylan d. 
For all other areas, daily semi -private room rate when confined as an Inpatient and general nursing care provided 
and charged by the Hospital.  
 
2. Intensive Care . 
See Schedule of Benefits.  
 
3. Hospital Miscellaneous Expenses . 
When confined as an Inpatient or as a precondition for being confined as an Inpatient.  In computing the number of 
days payable under this benefit, the date of admission will be counted, but not the date of discharge.  
 
Benefits will be paid for services and supplies such as:   
• The cost of the operating room .  
• Laboratory tests . 
• Blood  and blood  products, both derivatives and components such as biologics, serums to include autologous 
services, whole blood, red blood cells, platelets, plasma, immunoglobulin and albumin.   
• X-ray exam inations .  
• Anesthesia .  
• Drugs (excluding take home drugs) or medicines .  
• Therapeutic services .  
• Supplies . 
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  7  4. Routine Newborn Care . 
See Benefits for Maternity Expenses.  
 
5. Surgery . 
Physician's fees for Inpatient surgery.   
 
6. Assistant Surgeon Fees . 
Assistant Surgeon Fees in connection with Inpatient surgery.  
 
7. Anesthetist Services . 
Professional services administered in connection with Inpatient surgery.  
 
8. Registered Nurse's Services . 
Registered Nurse’s services which are all of the following:  
• Private duty nursing care only .  
• Received when confined as  an Inpatient . 
• Ordered by a licensed Physician . 
 
General nursing care provided by the Hospital , Skilled Nursing Facility or Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility is not 
covered under this benefit.  
 
9. Physi cian's Visits . 
Non-surgical Physician services when confined as an Inpatient.  
 
10. Pre-admission Testing . 
Benefits include and are payable for  routine tests such as:   
• Complete blood count .  
• Urinalysis .  
• Chest X -rays.  
 
Major diagnostic procedures such as  those listed below will be paid under the Hospital Miscellaneous benefit :  
• CT scans .  
• NMR's . 
• Blood chemistries .  
 
Outpatient  
 
11. Surgery . 
Physician's fees for Outpatient surgery.  
 
When these services are performed in a Physician’s office, benefits are payable under outpatient Physician’s Visits.  
 
12. Day Surgery Miscellaneous . 
Facility charge and the charge for services and supplies in connect ion with Outpatient day surgery ; excluding n on-
scheduled surgery; and surgery performed in a Hospital emergency room; trauma center ; Physician's office; or 
clinic .  
 
13. Assistant Surgeon Fees . 
Assistant Surgeon Fees in connection with Outpatient surgery . 
 
14. Anesthetist Services . 
Professional services administered in connection with Outpatient surgery.  
 
15. Physician's Visits . 
Services provided in a Physician’s office for the diagnosis and treatment of a Sickness or Injury. Benefit s do not 
apply when related to surgery , Habilitative Services  or Rehabilitative Services . 
 
Benefits include the following services when performed in t he Physician’s office:  
• Surgery.  
 
Physician’s Visits for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  8   
16. Chiropractic Services . 
Services provided for the diagnosis and treatment of a Sickness or Injury.  
 
17. Habilitative Services.  
Includes but is not limited to the following  Habilitative Services:  
• Physical therapy . 
• Occupational therapy . 
• Speech therapy .  
 
See also Benefits for Habilitative Services for Children.  
 
18. Rehabilitative Services.  
Includes but is not limited to the following Rehabilitative Services:  
• Physical therapy.  
• Occupational therapy.  
• Speech therapy.  
 
19. Medical Emergency Expenses . 
Only in connection with a Medical Emergency as defined. Benefits will be paid for  Emergency Services, as defined, 
and the facility charge for use of the emergency room and supplies.  
 
20. Diagnostic X -ray Services . 
See Schedule of Benefits. X-ray services for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care 
Services.  
 
21. Radiation Therapy . 
See Schedule of Benefits.  
 
22. Laboratory Procedures . 
Laboratory Procedures include blood  and blood  products, both derivatives and components such as biologics, 
serums to include autologous services, whole blood, red blood cells, platelets, plasma, immunoglobulin and 
albumin. Laboratory  procedures for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services.  
 
23. Tests and Procedures . 
Tests and procedures are those diagnostic services and medical procedures performed by a Physician but do not 
include:  
• Physician's Visits.  
• Habilitative Services . 
• Rehabilitative Services.   
• X-rays.  
• Laboratory Procedures.  
 
The following therapies will be paid under the Tests and Procedures (Outpatient) benefit:  
• Inhalation therapy.  
• Infusion therapy.  
• Respiratory therapy.  
• Dialysis and hemodia lysis.  
 
Tests and Procedures for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services.  
 
24. Injections . 
When administered in the Physician's office and charged on the Physician's statement. Immunizations for 
preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services.  
 
25. Chemotherapy . 
See Schedule of Benefits.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  9   
26. Prescription Drugs . 
See Schedule of Benefits.  
 
Benefits will be provided for prescribed orally administered cancer medications on a basis no less favorable than 
intravenously administered or injected cancer medications.  
 
Coverage for prescription eye drops will be provided in accordance with guidance for early refills of topical 
ophthalmic products provided to Medicare Part D plan sponsors by the Ce nters for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
and when:  
• The prescribing Physician indicates on the original prescription that additional quantities of the prescription eye 
drops are needed.  
• The refill requested by the Insured Person does not exceed the number o f additional quantities indicated on the 
original prescription by the prescribing Physician.  
• The prescription eye drops prescribed by the Physician a re a covered benefit under the P olicy.  
 
Other  
 
27. Ambulance Services . 
To or from the nearest Hospital where needed medical services can appropriately be provided . 
 
28. Durable Medical Equipment . 
Durable Medical Equipment furnished by a supplier or home health agency that must be all of the following:  
• Primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose . 
• Can withstand repeated use . 
• Generally is not useful to a person in the absence of disability, Injury or Sickness.  
• Is appropriate for use in the home.   
 
For the purposes of this benefit, the following are considered durable medical equipment.  
• Braces that stabilize an injured body part and braces to treat curvature of the spine.  
• External prosthetic devices that  are not fully implanted in the body . Benefits include the training necessary to 
use these prostheses.  
• Nebulizers and peak flow meters.  
• Durable medic al equipment or supplies associated or used in conjunction with medical foods and nutritional 
substance.  
 
Benefits are available for repairs and replacement, except that:  
• There are no benefits for repairs due to misuse, malicious damage or gross neglect.  
• There are no benefits for replacement due to misuse, malicious damage, gross neglect or for lost or stolen 
prosthetic devices.  
 
Dental braces are not durable medical equipment and are not covered.  
 
29. Consultant Physician Fees . 
Services provided on an Inpatie nt or Outpatient basis.  
 
30. Dental Treatment . 
Dental treatment when services are performed by a Physician and  limited to the following:  
• Injury to Sound, Natural Teeth.   
• Removal of impacted  wisdom teeth.  
 
Breaking a tooth while eating is not covered.  Routine dental care and treatment to the gums are not covered.  This 
limitation  does not apply to the Pediatric Dental Services provided under the Policy.  
 
Pediatric dental benefits are provided in the Pediatric Dental Services provision .  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  10   
Benefits will also be provided for anesthesia services and associated Hospital or ambulatory facility charges 
provided in conjunction with dental care for:  
• An Insured child age seven  years or younger or an Insured who is developmentally disabled and cannot  have 
successful dental treatment results under local anesthesia because of a physical, intellectual, or other medically 
compromising condition  and a superior result can be expected from dental care provided under general 
anesthesia .   
• An Insured who is 17  years or younger who has dental needs of such magnitude that treatment should not be 
delayed or deferred and is extremely uncooperative, fearful, or uncommunicative.  This includes Insureds 
whose lack of treatment can be expected to result in oral pain, i nfection, loss of teeth or other increased oral or 
dental morbidity.  
 
31. Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorder Treatment . 
Benefits will be provided for the following : 
• Professional services by licensed , registered or certified  professional mental health an d substance use 
practitioners , such as psychiatrists, psychologists, clinical social works, licensed professional counselors, or 
marriage and family therapists,  when acting within the scope of their license , registration or certification  for the 
diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric conditions, mental illness or mental disorders, which include:  
▪ Diagnostic evaluation.  
▪ Crisis intervention and stabilization for acute episodes.  
▪ Opioid treatment services.  
▪ Medication evaluation and management (pharmacotherapy).  
▪ Treatment and counseling (including individual and group therapy visits).  
▪ Diagnosis and treatment of alcoholism and drug misuse , including detoxification, treatment and counseling.  
▪ Professional charges for intensive O utpatient treatment in a Physician’s office or other professional setting.  
▪ Electroconvulsive therapy.  
▪ Inpatient professional fees.  
▪ Outpatient diagnostic tests provided and billed by a licensed, registered or certified mental health and 
substance use practitioner.  
▪ Outpatient d iagnostic tests provided and billed by a laboratory, Hospital or other covered facility.  
▪ Psychological and neuropsychological testing necessary to determine the appropriate psychiatric 
treatment.  
• Inpatient treatment in a Hospital or inpatient residential t reatment center, which include facility services and 
supplies and the following room and board services.  
▪ Ward, semiprivate or intensive care accommodations.  Private room accommodations are covered when 
determined by the treating Physician to be necessary.  If a private room is determined to not be necessary 
by the treating Physician, the coverage will be limited to only the Hospital’s average charge for semiprivate 
accommodations.  
▪ General nursing care.  
▪ Meals and special diets.  
▪ Services or supplie s provided by a Hospital or residential treatment center.  
• Outpatient s ervices such as partial hospitalization or intensive day treatment programs , not limited to an 
outpatient Hospital setting . 
• Emergency room O utpatient services and supplies billed by a Ho spital for emergency room treatment.  
 
Benefits for Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorder Treatment do not include:  
• Services by pastoral or marital counselors.  
• Therapy for sexual problems.  
• Treatment for learning disabilities and intellectual disabilitie s. 
• Travel time to the member’s home to conduct therapy.  
• Marriage counseling.  
 
32. Maternity . 
See Benefits for Maternity Expenses.   
 
Benefits also include one birthing course  per pregnancy . 
 
33. Complications of Pregnancy . 
Same as any other Sickness.  
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  11  34. Preventive Care Services . 
Medical services that have been demonstrated by clinical evidence to be safe and effective in either the early 
detection of disease or in the prevention of disease, have been proven to have a beneficial effect on health 
outcomes a nd are limited to the following as required under applicable law:  
• Evidence -based items or services that have in effect a rating of “A” or “B” in the current recommendations of 
the United States Preventive Services Task Force , except that the current recom mendation of the United States 
Preventive Service Task Force  regarding breast cancer screening, mammography and prevention of breast 
cancer shall be considered the most current other than those issued in or around November 2009 .  
• Immunizations that have in  effect a recommendation from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  with respect to the individual involved . 
• With respect to infants, children, and adolescents, evidence -informed preventive care and screenings provided 
for in the comprehensive guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration .  
• With respect to women, such additional preventive care and screenings provided for in comprehensive 
guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration .  
 
35. Reconstructive Breast Surgery Following Mastectomy .  
See Benefits for Reconstructive Breast Surgery Following a Mastectomy .  
 
36. Diabetes Services .  
Same as any other Sickness in connection with the treatment of diabetes.   
 
Benefits will be paid for:  
• Outpatient self -management training, education and medical nutrition therapy service when ordered by a 
Physician and provided by appropriately licensed or registered healthcare professionals . 
• Prescription  Drugs, equipment, and supplies including insulin pumps and supplies, blood glucose monitors, 
insulin syringes with needles, blood glucose and urine test strips, ketone test strips and tablets and lancets and 
lancet devices.  
 
Diabetes test strips will not be subject to any Deductible, Copayment and/or Coinsurance.  
 
37. Home Health Care .  
Services received  for continued care and treatment of an Insured Person in the home when :  
• The institutionalization of the Insured Person in a Hospital or related institution or Skilled Nursing Facility would 
otherwise have been required if home health care were not provided . 
• The plan or treatment providing the Home Health Care service is established and approved in writing by the 
treating Physician.   
 
Home Health C are benefits will be provided for Insureds who receive less than 48 hours of Inpatient hospitalization 
following a mastectomy or surgical removal of a testicle or when the mastectomy or surgical removal of a testicle is 
performed on an Outpatient basis.  B enefits shall include one home visit schedule to occur within 24 hours after 
discharge from the Hospital or an O utpatient health care facility following a mastectomy or removal of a testicle.  An 
additional home visit will be provided if prescribed by the Insured’s treating Physician.  
 
38. Hospice Care .  
When recommended by a Physician for an Insured Person that is terminally ill with a life expectancy of six months 
or less  and provided by a hospice care program . 
 
Hospice care includes , but is not limited to :  
• Nursing Care provided by or under the supervision of a registered professional nurse.  
• Physical  or occupational therapy, or speech -language pathology services .  
• Medical social services under the direction of a Physician.  
• Services, including hom emaker services, performed by a home health aide who has successfully completed a 
training program.  
• Medical supplies (including drugs and biologics) and the use of medical supplies.  
• Physician services.  
• Short -term Inpatient care (including respite care and procedures necessary for pain control and acute and 
chronic symptom management) in an Inpatient facility meeting such conditions to be appropriate to provide 
such care. Respite care may only be provided on an intermittent, non -routine, and occasional basis  and may 
not be provided consecutively over longer than five days.  
• Counseling (including dietary counseling) with respect to care for the terminally ill Insured Person.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  12  • Bereavement counseling provided after the Insured’s death to the Immediate Family or fa mily caregiver of the 
Insured to help cope with the death of the Insured Person.  
• Any other item or service which is recommended by the treating Physician.  
 
39. Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility .  
Services received while confined as a full -time Inpatient in a licensed Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility.  Confinement 
in the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility must follow within 24 hours of, and be for the same or related cause(s) as, a 
period of Hospital Confinement or Skilled Nursing Facility confine ment.  
 
40. Skilled Nursing Facility .  
Services received while confined as an Inpatient in a Skilled Nursing Facility for treatment rendered  in lieu of 
Hospital Confinement as a full -time inpatient.  
 
41. Urgent Care Center .  
Benefits are limited to:  
• Facility or clinic fee billed by the Urgent Care Center .  
 
All other services rendered during the visit will be paid as specifi ed in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
42. Hospital Outpatient Facility or Clinic .  
Benefits are limited to:  
• Facility or clinic fee billed by the Hospital . 
 
All other services rendered during the visit will be paid as specifi ed in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
43. Approved Clinical Trials . 
Routine Patient Care Costs incurred while taking part in an Approved Clinical Trial or a Controlled Clinical Trial  for 
the treatment of cancer or other Life -threatening Condition.  The Insured Person must be clinically eligible for 
participation in the Approved Clinical Trial or Controlled Clinical Trial according to the trial protoc ol and either: 1) 
the referring Physician is a participating health care provider in the trial and has concluded that the Insured’s 
participation would be appropriate; or 2) the Insured provides medical and scientific evidence information 
establishing that  the Insured’s participation would be appropriate.  
 
“Controlled Clinical Trial” means a treatment that is:  
• Approved by an institutional review board  
• Conducted for the primary purpose of determining whether or not a particular treatment is safe and efficacious; 
and 
• Approved by any of the following:  
▪ An institute or center of the National Institutes of Health  
▪ Food and Drug Administration  
▪ Department of Veteran’s Affairs  
▪ Department of Defense.  
 
“Routine patient care costs” means Covered Medical Expenses which are typically provided absent a clinical trial 
and not otherwise excluded under the Policy . Routine patient care costs do not include:  
• The experimental or investigational item, device or service, itself .  
• Items and services provided solely to satisf y data collection and analysis needs and that are not used in the 
direct clinical management of the patient . 
• A service that is clearly inconsistent with widely accepted and established standards of care for a particular 
diagnosis.  
 
“Life-threatening condition” means any disease or condition from which the likelihood of death is probable unless 
the course of the disease or condition is interrupted.  
 
“Approved clinical trial” means a phase I, phase II, phase III, or phase IV clinical t rial that is conducted in relation to 
the prevention, detection, or treatment of cancer or other life -threatening disease or condition and is described in 
any of the following:  
• Federally funded trials. The study or investigation is approved or funded (whic h may include funding through 
in-kind contributions) by o ne or more of the following:  
▪ National Institutes of Health  (NIH) . (Includes National Cancer Institute (NCI).)  
▪ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  (CDC) .  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  13  ▪ Agency for Health care Research and Qual ity (AHRQ) . 
▪ Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  (CMS) . 
▪ A cooperative group or center of any of the entities described  above or the Department of Defense  (DOD) 
or the Veterans Administration  (VA). 
▪ A qualified non -governmental research entity identified in the guidelines issued by the National Institutes of 
Health for center support grants.  
▪ The Department of Veterans Affairs , the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy  if the study 
or investigation has been reviewed and approved throu gh a system of peer review. The peer review system 
is determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services  to meet both of the following  criteria:  
o Comparable to the system of peer review of studies and investigations used by the National Institutes 
of Health.  
o Ensures unbiased review of the highest scientific standards by qualified individuals who have no 
interest in the outcome of the review.   
• The study or investigation is conducted under an investigational new drug application reviewed by the Food 
and Drug Administration.  
• The study or investigation is a drug trial that is exempt from having such an investigational new drug application.  
 
44. Transp lantation Services.  
Same as any other Sickness for organ or tissue transplants when ordered by a Physician. Benefits are available 
when the transplant meets the definition of a Covered Medical Expense.  
 
Benefits for transplants will be provided for all non-experimental/investigational  solid organ  transplants  and non -
solid organ transplant procedures . Transplants include autologous and non -autologous bone marrow, cornea, 
kidney, liver, heart, lung, heart/lung, pancreas, and pancreas/kidney transplants.  
 
Dono r costs that are directly related to organ removal are Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are payable 
through the Insured organ recipient’s coverage under th e Policy . The cost of hotel lodging and air transportation 
are Covered Medical Expenses pr ovided for the Insured recipient and a companion (or the Insured recipient and 
two companions if the recipient is under the age of 18 years), to and from the site of the transplant . 
 
No benefits are payable for transplants involving permanent mechanical or  animal organs.   
 
Health services connected with the removal of an organ or tissue from an Insured Person for purposes of a 
transplant to another person are not covered.  
 
45. Pediatric Dental and Vision Services.  
Benefits are payable as specified in the Pediatric Dental Services Benefits and Pediatric Vision  Care  Services 
Benefits  in Sections 19 and 20 of this Certificate .  
 
46. Allergy Treatment.  
Benefits are payable for allergy testing and treatment . 
 
Benefits includ e:  
• Allergy testing.  
• Allergy serum .  
• Allergy injections , including administration of injections and allergy serum .  
 
47. Cardiac Rehabilitation . 
Cardiac rehabilitation benefits for Insureds who have been diagnosed with significant cardiac disease, or who have 
suffered a myocardial infarction, or who have undergone invasive cardiac treatment immediately preceding referral 
for cardiac rehabilitation.  Cardiac rehabilitation is a comprehensive program involving medical evaluation, 
prescribed exercise, cardiac  risk factor modification, education and counseling.  Benefits include the following:  
• Continuous EKG telemetric monitoring during exercise, EKG rhythm strip with interpretation, Physician’s 
revision of exercise prescription, and follow -up examination for P hysician to adjust medication or change 
regimen.  
• Increased outpatient rehabilitation services for physical therapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy.  
 
Services must be provided at a place of service equipped and approved to provide cardiac rehabilit ation.  Benefits 
do not include maintenance programs, which consist of activities that preserve the Insured’s present level of function 
and prevent regression of that function.  Maintenance begins when the therapeutic goals of a treatment plan have 
been ac hieved or when no additional progress is apparent or expected to occur.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  14   
48. Case Management Approved Services.  
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness when treatment for any other Covered Medical Expense or 
service is approved by the Company’s ca se management program.  
 
49. Family Planning.   
Benefits are limited to:  
• Prescription contraceptive drugs or devices that are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and 
obtained under a prescription written by a Physician and contraceptive drugs approved by the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration available by prescript ion but dispensed without a prescription, including over the counter 
contraceptives.  
▪ No Copay or Coinsurance will be applied to contraceptive drugs or devices unless there is a therapeutically 
equivalent contraceptive  drug or device , according to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration, available 
under the Policy without a Copay or Coinsurance.  
▪ Benefits are available for a single dispensing of a 12-month supply of a contraceptive .  If a 12-month supply 
extends beyond the Policy termination date, benefits wil l be provided for the number of months up to the 
Policy termination date.    
• The insertion or removal of a contraceptive device and any medical examination associated with the use of a 
contraceptive drug or device.  
• Voluntary sterilization. No Deductible, C opay or Coinsurance will be applied to male sterilization.  
 
50. Hearing Aids.  
Hearing aids when required for the correction of a hearing impairment (a reduction in the ability to perceive sound 
which may range from slight to complete deafness). Hearing aids are electronic amplifying devices designed to 
bring sound more effectively into the ear.  A hearing aid consists of a microphone, amplifier and receiver.  
 
Benefits are available for a hearing aid that is purchased as a result of a written recommendati on by a Physician.  
Benefits are limited to one hearing aid per hearing impaired ear every 36 months.  
 
51. Infertility Services.  
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for the diagnoses and treatment of infertility  and in vitro 
fertilization serv ices. Benefits for in fertility services include all O utpatient services arising from in vitro fertilization , 
artificial insemination, and intrauterine insemination  procedures performed on an Insured Person.  
 
Benefits for in vitro fertilization  are payable if any of the following has occurred:  
• For a married patient, whose spouse is of the opposite sex, the  patient’s oocytes are fertilized with the patient’s  
spouse’s sperm, except when the patient’s spouse is unable to produce and deliver functional sperm. Th e 
exception does not apply when the inability to produce and deliver functional sperm is a result from a vasectomy 
or any other method of voluntary sterilization.  
• For a married  patient, the patient and the patient’s spouse who are of the opposite sex have a history of 
involuntary infertility of at least a 1 year  duration, demonstrated through intercourse and failing to result in 
pregnancy . 
• For a married patient, the patient and patient’s spouse who are of the same sex, have a history of involuntary 
infertil ity demonstrated through 3 attempts of artificial insemination over the course of 1 year and failing to result 
in pregnancy.  
• For an unmarried patient, the patient has had 3 attempts of artificial insemination over the course of 1 year 
failing to result in pregnancy.  
• The infertility of the patient is associated with any of the following medical conditions:  
▪ Endometriosis.  
▪ Exposure in utero to diethylstilbestrol, commonly known as DES.  
▪ Blockage of, or surgical removal of, one or both fallopian tubes (lateral or bilateral salpingectomy).  
▪ Abnormal male factors, including oligospermia, contributing to the infertility.  
• The Insured has been unable to attain a successful pregnancy demonstrated through a less costly infertility 
treatment for which c overage is available under the P olicy.  
 
In vitro fertilization procedures must be  performed at medical facilities that conform to the American College of 
Obstetricians and Gynecologists or the American Fertility Society for reproductive medicine guidelines  and minimal 
standards.   
 
Benefits for infertility services other than in vitro fertilization provided to an Insured Person who is married to an 
individual of the same sex does not require:   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  15  • The Insured Person’s spouse’s sperm be used in the covered treatme nts or procedures.  
• The Insured Person demonstrates  infertility exclusively by means of a history of unsuccessful heterosexual 
intercourse.  
 
The patient must either be the Named Insured or a covered Dependent of the Named Insured.  
 
Benefits are not provided  for a treatment or a procedure that would not treat a diagnosed medical condition of an 
Insured Person.  
 
Unless specified in the Schedule of Benefits , Infertility Services  do not include:  
• Ovum transplants.  
• Gamete intrafallopian tube transfer.  
• Zygote intra fallopian transfer.  
• Cryogenic or other preservation techniques.  
• Costs incurred for obtaining donor sperm.  
 
52. Medical Foods.  
Benefits are payable for medical foods and nutritional therapy for the treatment of metabolic disorders when ordered 
and supervised by a Physician qualified to provide the diagnosis and treatment in the field of the disorder/disease.  
 
53. Nutritional Services.  
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for nutritional counseling provided by a licensed dietician -
nutriti onist, Physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner for an Insured Person at risk due to nutritional 
history, current dietary intake, medication use or chronic illness or condition.  Benefits include medical nutrition 
therapy provided by a licensed  dietician -nutritionist, working in coordination with a primary care Physician, to treat 
a chronic illness or condition.  
 
54. Patient Centered Medical Care Coordination.  
Benefits will be paid for that portion of charges which is not in excess of the Allowed Am ount for costs associated 
with coordination of care for an Insured who has a chronic condition, serious illness, or complex health care needs, 
including:  
• Liaison services between the Insured and Physicians, nurse coordinator, and the Care Coordination Team . 
• Creation and supervision of the Care Plan.  
• Education of the Insured and Insured’s family regarding the Insured’s disease, treatment compliance and self -
care techniques.  
• Assistance with coordination of care, including arrangement consultations with Specia list, and obtaining other 
supplies and services, including community resources.  
 
“Care Coordination Team” means the Physicians and health care providers involved in the collaborative process of 
assessment, planning, facilitation and advocacy for options an d services to meet the Insured’s health needs through 
communication and available resources to promote quality cost -effective outcomes.  
 
55. Pulmonary Rehabilitation.  
Benefits are provided to Insureds who have been diagnosed with significant pulmonary disease and are limited to 
one (1) program per lifetime. Benefits do not include maintenance programs, which consist of activities that preserve 
the Insured’s present level of function and prevent regression of that function.  Maintenance begins when the 
therapeut ic goals of a treatment plan have been achieved or when no additional progress is apparent or expected 
to occur.  
 
56. Wellness Benefits.  
Benefits will be provided to the Named Insured for exercise facility fees or membership fees but only if such fees 
are paid to exercise facilities which maintain equipment and/or programs that promote cardiovascular wellness.  
 
Memberships in tennis clubs, country clubs, weight loss clinics, spas or any other similar facilities will not be 
reimbursed.  Lifetime memberships are not eligible for reimbursement.  Benefits are  limited to actual workout visits.  
The Company will not provide benefits  for equipment, clothing, vitamins or other services that may be offered by 
the facility (e.g., massages, etc.).  
 
In order to be eligi ble for benefits , the Insured must:  
• Be an active member of the exercise facility; and  
• Complete 50 visits in a six month period.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  16  In order to obtain benefits , at the end of the six -month period, the Named Insured must submit:  
• Documentation of the visits fro m the facility. Each time the Insured visits the exercise facility, a facility 
representative must sign and date the documentation of the visits.  
• A copy of the Insured’s current facility bill which shows the fee paid for their membership.  
• A copy of the bro chure that outlines the services the exercise facility offers.  
 
Once the Company receives documentation of the visits and the bill, the Named Insured will be paid the lesser of 
$200 or the actual cost of the membership per six -month period. Payment will be  issued only after the Insured has 
completed each six -month period even if 50 visits are completed sooner.  
 
In the case where it is unreasonably difficult for the Named Insured to satisfy the requirements for benefits due to 
a medical condition or it is me dically inadvisable for the Named Insured to attempt; the Company allows a 
reasonable alternative standard and any recommendations from the Named Insured’s treating Physician will be 
accommodated.  Contact the Company at 1-800-767-0700 for information on a lternative standards .  Alternative 
standards are determined on a case -by-case basis.  
 
This Wellness Program benefit is available to the Named Insured only.  
 
In addition, all Insureds have access to a voluntary online health risk assessment.  The health risk assessment 
provides written feedback to each Insured who completes the assessment, with recommendations for lowering risks 
identified in the completed health risk assessment.  Insureds may access the health risk assessment at 
www.uhcsr.com/myac count.  
 
57. Wigs.  
Wigs and other scalp hair prosthesis when prescribed by the Insured’s attending Physician for the treatment of hair 
loss. 
 
Section 7 : Mandated Benefits  
Benefits for Maternity Expenses  
 
Benefits will be paid for normal pregnancy and normal chi ldbirth to the same extent as for any other Sickness subject to the 
following:  
 
Benefits will be paid for a mother and newborn child for a minimum of:  
 
1. 48 hours of inpatient hospitalization care after an uncomplicated vaginal delivery; and  
2. 96 hours of inpa tient hospitalization care after an uncomplicated cesarean section.  
 
When the mother remains hospitalized for medical reasons beyond the minimum time specified above, newborn care will 
be provided for an additional 4 days of Hospital confinement , at the mo ther’s request.  
 
If prescribed by the Physician, one Home Visit will be provided for a mother and her newborn child who remain in the 
Hospital for the above referenced lengths of time.  
 
If the decision is made between the mother and the Physician for a shorter Hospital stay, then benefits will be provided for 
one Home Visit scheduled to occur within 24 hours after the Hospital discharge and one additional Home Visit if prescribed 
by the Physician.  
 
“Home visit” shall:  
 
1. Be provided in accordance with generally accepted standards of nursing practice for home care of a mother and 
newborn child;  
2. Be provided by a Registered Nurse with at least one year of experience in maternal and child health nursing or 
community health nursing with an emphasis on matern al and child health; and  
3. Include any services required by the Physician.  
 
With regard to this section only, Home Visits are not subject to any Copayment, Coinsurance or Deductible.  Benefits will 
be provided even if the services do not occur within the tim e specified.  
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, or any other provisions of the Policy.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  17  Benefits for Prostate Cancer Screening  
 
Benefit will be paid for that portion of charges which is not in excess of the Allowed Amount  for expenses incurred in 
conducting a medically recognized prostate cancer screening diagnostic examination . Benefits include a digital rectal exam 
and a prostate -specific antigen (PSA) tests  subject to any of the following requirements:   
 
1. For men betwee n the ages of 40 and 75 . 
2. When used for the purpose of guiding patient management in monitoring the response to prostate cancer treatment . 
3. When used for staging in determining the need for a bone scan in patients with prostate cancer .  
4. When used for men who  are at high risk for prostate cancer.  
 
Benefits shall not be subjec t to any Deductible, Copayment or Coinsurance but shall be subject to any other provisions of 
the Policy.  
 
Benefits for Reconstructive Breast Surgery Following a Mastectomy  
 
Benefits will be paid for that portion of charges which is not in excess of the Allowed Amount  for Reconstructive Breast 
Surgery and prosthesis for an Insured who has not had reconstructio n surgery following a Mastectomy.  Benefits shall 
include: 1) reconstruction of the breast on which the Mastectomy has been performed; 2) all stages of surgery and 
reconstruction of the non -diseased breast to establish symmetry; and 3) breast prosthesis an d physical complications from 
all stages of the Mastectomy, including lymphedemas, in a manner determined in consultation with the attending Physician 
and the Insured.  
 
“Mastectomy” means the surgical removal of all or part of a breast.  
 
“Reconstructive Breast Surgery” means surgery performed as a result of a Mastectomy to reestablish symmetry between 
the two breasts and includes augmentation mammoplasty, reduction mammoplasty, and mastopexy.  
 
Benefits shall not be subject to benefit limitations for specif ic types of services.  Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, 
Copayment, Coinsurance, or any other provisions of the Policy.  
  
Benefits for Mammography  
 
Benefits will be paid for breast cancer screening under the Preventive Care Services benefit or u nder this benefit, whichever 
is greater.  
 
Breast cancer screenings covered by the Preventive Care Services benefit will be pa id as specified in the Preventive Care 
Services benefit in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
Breast cancer screenings payable under this b enefit will be paid for that portion of charges which is not in excess of the 
Allowed Amount  for breast cancer screening in accordance with the latest screening guidelines issued by the American 
Cancer Society.  
 
Benefits shall include coverage for Digital Tomosynthesis that, under accepted standards in the practice of medicine, th e 
treating P hysician determines is medically appropriate and necessary for an Insured Person.  
 
Breast cancer screenings  used to identify breast cancer in asymptomatic women , includ ing Digital Tomosynthesis, must be 
provided in facilities accredited by the American College of Radiology or certified or licensed under a program established 
by the state of Maryland.  
 
“Digital Tomosynthesis” means a radiologic procedure that involves the  acquisition of projection images over the stationary 
breast to produce cross -sectional digital three -dimensional images of the breast.  
 
Benefits shall not be su bject to any Deductible, but shall be  subject to all Copayment, Coinsurance, or any other provisions 
of the Policy.  
 
Benefits for Morbid Obesity  
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other surgery for surgical treatment of Morbid Obesity that is recognized by the 
National Institutes of Healt h as effective for the long -term reversal of Morbid Obesity and consistent with criteria approved 
by the National Institutes of Health.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  18  “Body mass index” means a practical marker that is used to assess the degree of obesity and is calculated by dividing t he 
weight in kilograms by the height in meters squared.  
 
“Morbid obesity” means a Body Mass Index that is greater than 40 kilograms per meter squared or equal to or greater than 
35 kilograms per meter squared with a comorbid medical condition, including hy pertension, a cardiopulmonary condition, 
sleep apnea, diabetes, or any life -threatening or serious medical condition that is weight induced.  
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy.  
 
Benefits for Habilitative Services for Children  
 
Benefits will be paid for that portion of charges which is not in excess of the Allowed Amount for Habilitative Services for an 
Insured Person under the age of 19 years , which includes  the treatment of autism and autism spectrum disorder .  Benefits 
will not be paid for Habilitative Services delivered through early intervention or school services.  
 
 
“Habilitative services” within this benefit means services and devices designed to help a person keep, l earn, or improve 
skills and functioning for daily living (such as therapy for a child who is not walking or talking at the expected age). Bene fits 
include occupational therapy, physical therapy, and speech therapy, for the treatment of a child with a Conge nital or Genetic 
Birth Defect to enhance the child’s ability to function.  
 
“Congenital or genetic birth defect” within this benefit means a defect existing at or from birth, including a hereditary def ect.  
Congenital or genetic birth defect includes, but i s not limited to, autism or an autism spectrum disorder, cerebral palsy, 
intellectual disability, down syndrome, spina bifida, hydroencephalocele, and congenital or genetic developmental 
disabilities.  
 
Benefits are included for I npatient or O utpatient Cove red Medical Expenses arising from orthodontics; oral surgery; otologic; 
audiological and speech/language treatment involved in the management of birth defects known as cleft lip and cleft palate 
or both.  
 
This benefit is subject to all Deductible, Copaymen ts, Coinsurance, or any other provisions of the Policy.  
 
Benefits for PANDAS and PANS  
 
Benefits will be paid for the diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders 
associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute onset neuropsychiatric syndrome, including intravenous 
immunoglobulin therapy, to the same extent as any other Sickness.  
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Polic y. 
 
Section 8: Coordination of Benefits Provision  
Benefits will be coordinated with any other eligible medical, surgical, or hospital Plan or coverage so that combined 
payments under all programs will not exceed 100% of Allowa ble Expenses incurred for cove red services and supplies.  
 
Definitions  
1. Allowable Expenses:  Any health care expense, including Coinsurance, or Copays and without reduction for any 
applicable Deductible that is covered in full or in part by any of the Plans covering the Insured Person.  If a Plan is 
advised by an Insured Person that all Plans covering the Insured Person are high -deductible health Plans and the 
Insured Person intends to contribute to a health savings account established in accordance with section 223 of the 
Interna l Revenue Code of 1986, the primary high -deductible health Plan’s deductible is not an allowable expense, 
except for any health care expense incurred that may not be subject to the deductible as described in s 223(c)(2)(C) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1 986. If a Plan provides benefits in the form of services, the reasonable cash value 
of each service is considered an allowable expense and a benefit paid.  An expense or service or a portion of an 
expense or service that is not covered by any of the Plans i s not an allowable expense.  Any expense that a provider 
by law or in accordance with a contractual agreement is prohibited from charging an Insured Person is not an 
allowable expense.  Expenses that are not allowable include all of the following.  
• The differ ence between the cost of a semi -private hospital room and a private hospital room, unless one of the 
Plans provides coverage for private hospital rooms.  
• For Plans that compute benefit payments on the basis of usual and customary fees or relative value sche dule 
reimbursement or other similar reimbursement methodology, any amount in excess of the highest 
reimbursement amount for a specified benefit.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  19  • For Plans that provide benefits or services on the basis of negotiated fees, any amount in excess of the highes t 
of the negotiated fees.  
• If one Plan calculates its benefits or services on the basis of usual and customary fees or relative value schedule 
reimbursement or other similar reimbursement methodology and another Plan calculates its benefits or services 
on the basis of negotiated fees, the Primary Plan’s payment arrangement shall be the Allowable Expense for 
all Plans.  However, if the provider has contracted with the Secondary Plan to provide the benefit or service for 
a specific negotiated fee or payment amo unt that is different than the Primary Plan’s payment arrangement and 
if the provider’s contract permits, that negotiated fee or payment shall be the allowable expense used by the 
Secondary Plan to determine its benefits.  
 
The amount of any benefit reducti on by the Primary Plan because an Insured Person has failed to comply with the Plan 
provisions is not an Allowable Expense.  Examples of these types of Plan provisions include second surgical opinions, 
precertification of admission, and preferred provider a rrangements.   
 
2. Plan:  A form of coverage with which coordination is allowed.  
 
Plan includes all of the following:  
• Group insurance contracts and subscriber contracts.  
• Uninsured arrangements of group or group -type coverage.  
• Group coverage through closed panel Plans.  
• Group -type contracts, including blanket contracts.  
• The medical care components of long -term care contracts, such as skilled nursing care.  
• Medicare or other governmental benefits, as permitted by law, except for Me dicare supplement coverage.  That 
part of the definition of Plan may be limited to the hospital, medical, and surgical benefits of the governmental 
program.  
 
Plan does not include any of the following:  
 
• Hospital indemnity coverage benefits or other fixed in demnity coverage.  
• Accident only coverage.  
• Limited benefit health coverage as defined by state law.  
• Specified disease or specified accident coverage.  
• School accident -type coverages that cover students for accidents only, including athletic injuries, either on a 
twenty four hour basis or on a “to and from school” basis;  
• Benefits provided in long term care insurance policies for non -medical services, for example, personal care, 
adult day care, homemaker services, assistance with activities of daily living, res pite care, and custodial care 
or for contracts that pay a fixed daily benefit without regard to expenses incurred or the receipt of services.  
• Medicare supplement policies.  
• State Plans under Medicaid.  
• A governmental Plan, which, by law, provides benefits t hat are in excess of those of any private insurance Plan 
or other nongovernmental Plan.  
• An Individual Health Insurance Contract.  
 
3. Primary Plan:  A Plan whose benefits for a person’s health care coverage must be determined without taking the 
existence of an y other Plan into consideration.  A Plan is a Primary Plan if: 1) the Plan either has no order of benefit 
determination rules or its rules differ from those outlined in this Coordination of Benefits Provision; or 2) all Plans 
that cover the Insured Person use the order of benefit determination rules and under those rules the Plan determines 
its benefits first.  
 
4. Secondary Plan:  A Plan that is not the Primary Plan.  
 
5. We, Us or Our:  The Company named in the Policy.  
 
Rules for Coordination of Benefits  - When an Insured Person is covered by two or more Plans, the rules for determining 
the order of benefit payments are outlined below.  
 
The Primary Plan pays or provides its benefits according to its terms of coverage and without regard to the bene fits under 
any other Plan.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  20   
If an Insured is covered by more than one Secondary Plan, the Order of Benefit Determination rules in this provision shall 
decide the order in which the Secondary Plan’s benefits are determined in relation to each other.  Each Secondary Plan 
shall take into consideration the benefits of the Primary Plan or Plans and the benefits of any other Plans, which has its 
benefits determined before those of that Secondary Plan.  
 
A Plan that does not contain a coordination of benefits prov ision that is consistent with this provision is always primary 
unless the provisions of both Plans state that the complying Plan is primary. This does not apply to coverage that is obtaine d 
by virtue of membership in a group that is designed to supplement a part of a basic package of benefits and provides that 
this supplementary coverage shall be excess to any other parts of the Plan provided by the contract holder.  Examples of 
these types of situations are major medical coverages that are superimposed over  base Plan hospital and surgical benefits, 
and insurance type coverages that are written in connection with a closed panel Plan to provide out of network benefits.  
 
If the Primary Plan is a closed panel Plan and the Secondary Plan is not a closed panel Plan, the Secondary Plan shall pay 
or provide benefits as if it were the Primary Plan when an Insured Person uses a non -panel provider, except for Emergency 
Services or authorized referrals that are paid or provided by the Primary Plan.  
 
A Plan may consider t he benefits paid or provided by another Plan in calculating payment of its benefits only when it is 
secondary to that other Plan.  
 
Order of Benefit Determination  - Each Plan determines its order of benefits using the first of the following rules that apply : 
 
1. Non-Dependent/Dependent.  The benefits of the Plan which covers the person as an employee, member or 
subscriber are determined before those of the Plan which covers the person as a Dependent.  If the person is a 
Medicare beneficiary, and, as a result of t he provisions of Title XVII of the Social Security Act and implementing 
regulations, Medicare is both (i) secondary to the Plan covering the person as a dependent; and (ii) primary to the 
Plan covering the person as other than a dependent, then the order o f benefit is reversed.  The Plan covering the 
person as an employee, member, subscriber, Policyholder or retiree is the Secondary Plan and the other Plan 
covering the person as a dependent is the Primary Plan. 
 
2. Dependent Child/Parents Married or Living Together.  When this Plan and another Plan cover the same child as 
a Dependent of different persons, called "parents" who are married or are living together whether or not they have 
ever been married:  
• the benefits of the Plan of the parent whose birt hday falls earlier in a year exclusive of year of birth are 
determined before those of the Plan of the parent whose birthday falls later in that year.  
• However, if both parents have the same birthday, the benefits of the Plan which covered the parent longer  are 
determined before those of the Plan which covered the other parent for a shorter period of time.  
 
3. Dependent Child/Parents Divorced, Separated or Not Living Together.  If two or more Plans cover a person as 
a Dependent child of parents who are divorced or separated or are not living together, whether or not they have 
ever been married, benefits for the child are determined in this order:  
 
If the specific terms of a court decree state that one of the parents is responsible for the health care ser vices or 
expenses of the child and that Plan has actual knowledge of those terms, that Plan is Primary.  If the parent with 
financial responsibility has no coverage for the child’s health care services or expenses, but that parent’s spouse 
does, the spouse’ s Plan is the Primary  Plan. This item shall not apply with respect to any Plan year during which 
benefits are paid or provided before the entity has actual knowledge of the court decree provision.   
 
If a court decree states that both parents are responsibl e for the child’s health care expenses or coverage, the order 
of benefit shall be determined in accordance with part (2).   
 
If a court decree states that the parents have joint custody without specifying that one parent has responsibility for 
the health ca re expenses or coverage of the child, the order of benefits shall be determined in accordance with the 
rules in part (2).  
 
If there is no court decree allocating responsibility for the child’s health care expenses or coverage, the order of 
benefits are as  follows:  
• First, the Plan of the parent with custody of the child.  
• Then the Plan of the spouse of the parent with the custody of the child.  
• The Plan of the parent not having custody of the child.  
• Finally, the Plan of the spouse of the parent not having cus tody of the child.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  21  4. Dependent Child/Non -Parental Coverage.  If a Dependent child is covered under more than one Plan of 
individuals who are not the parents of the child, the order of benefits shall be determined, as applicable, as if those 
individuals were parents of the child.  
 
5. Dependent Child/Parental and Spousal Coverage.  If a Dependent child has coverage under either or both 
parents’ plans and also has his or her own coverage as a Dependent under a spouse’s plan, the order of benefit 
determination shall  be the same as provided under paragraph (8) for Longer/Shorter Length of Coverage.  
 
In the event the Dependent child’s coverage under the spouse’s plan began on the same date as the Dependent 
child’s coverage under either or both parents’ plans, the order  of benefits shall be determined by the following:  
• The benefits of the Plan of the parent/spouse whose birthday falls earlier in a year exclusive of year of birth are 
determined before those of the Plan of the parent/spouse whose birthday falls later in th at year.  
• However, if both the parents and spouse have the same birthday, the benefits of the Plan which covered the 
parent or spouse longer are determined before those of the Plan which covered the other parent/spouse for a 
shorter period of time.  
 
6. Active/ Inactive Employee.  The benefits of a Plan which covers a person as an employee who is neither laid off 
nor retired (or as that employee's Dependent) are determined before those of a Plan which covers that person as 
a laid off or retired employee (or as that employee's Dependent).  If the other Plan does not have this rule, and if, as 
a result, the Plans do not agree on the order of benefits, this rule is ignored.  
 
7. COBRA or State Continuation Coverage.  If a person whose coverage is provided under COBRA or under a right 
of continuation pursuant to federal or state law also is covered under another Plan, the following shall be the order 
of benefit determination:  
• First, the benefits of a Plan covering the person as an employee, member or subscriber or  as that person’s 
Dependent.  
• Second, the benefits under the COBRA or continuation coverage.  
• If the other Plan does not have the rule described here and if, as a result, the Plans do not agree on the order 
of benefits, this rule is ignored.  
 
8. Longer/Shorter  Length of Coverage.  If none of the above rules determines the order of benefits, the benefits of 
the Plan which covered an employee, member or subscriber longer are determined before those of the Plan which 
covered that person for the shorter time.  
 
To de termine the length of time a person has been covered under a plan, two successive plans shall be treated as 
one if the covered person was eligible under the second plan within twenty -four (24) hours after coverage under the 
first plan ended.  The start of the new plan does not include:  
• A change in the amount or scope of a plan’s benefits.  
• A change in the entity that pays, provides, or administers the plan’s benefits.  
• A change from one type of plan to another, such as, from a single employer plan to a multip le employer plan.  
 
The person’s length of time covered under a plan is measured from the person’s first date of coverage under that 
plan.  If that date is not readily available for a group plan, the date the person first became a member of the group 
shall be used as the date from which to determine the length of time the persons coverage under the present plan 
has been in force.  
 
If none of the provisions stated above determine the Primary Plan, the Allowable Expenses shall be shared equally between 
the Pla ns. 
 
Effect on Benefits - When Our Plan is secondary , We may reduce Our benefits so that the total benefits paid or provided 
by all Plans during a plan year are not more than the total Allowable Expenses.  In determining the amount to be paid for 
any claim,  the Secondary Plan will calculate the benefits it would have paid in the absence of other health care coverage 
and apply that calculated amount to the Allowable Expense under its Plan that is unpaid by the Primary Plan.  The Secondary 
Plan may then reduce its payment by the amount so that, when combined with the amount paid by the Primary Plan, the 
total benefits paid or provided by all Plans for the claim do not exceed the total Allowable Expense for that claim.  In addition, 
the Secondary Plan shall credit  to its Plan Deductible any amounts it would have credited to its Deductible in the absence 
of other health care coverage.  
 
Right to Recovery and Release of Necessary Information  - For the purpose of determining applicability of and 
implementing the terms  of this provision, We may, without further consent or notice, release to or obtain from any other 
insurance company or organization any information, with respect to any person, necessary for such purposes.  Any person  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  22  claiming benefits under Our coverage s hall give Us the information We need to implement this provision.  We will give notice 
of this exchange of claim and benefit information to the Insured Person when any claim is filed.  
 
Facility of Payment and Recovery  - Whenever payments which should have b een made under our coverage have been 
made under any other Plans, We shall have the right to pay over to any organizations that made such other payments, any 
amounts that are needed in order to satisfy the intent of this provision.  Any amounts so paid will be deemed to be benefits 
paid under Our coverage.  To the extent of such payments, We will be fully discharged from Our liability.  
 
Whenever We have made payments with respect to Allowable Expenses in total amount at any time, which are more than 
the maximum amount of payment needed at that time to satisfy the intent of this provision, We may recover such excess 
payments.  Such excess p ayments may be received from among one or more of the following, as We determine: any persons 
to or for or with respect to whom such payments were made, any other insurers, service plans or any other organizations.  
 
Section 9: Definitions  
ADOPTED CHILD  means the adopted child of an Insured while that Insured Person is covered under the Policy. Such child 
will be covered from the moment of the earlier of either: 1) a judicial decree of adoption or 2) the assumption of custody, 
pending adoption, or a prospect ive adoptive child by a prospective adoptive adult parent for the first 31 days. The Insured 
must notify the Company, in writing, of the adopted child not more than 31 days after placement or adoption.  
 
In the case of a newborn adopted child, coverage begi ns at the moment of birth if a written agreement to adopt such child 
has been entered into by the Insured prior to the birth of the child, whether or not the agreement is enforceable. However, 
coverage will not continue to be provided for an adopted child who is not ultimately placed in the Insured’s residence.  
 
When the Policy covers Dependents, the Insured will have the right to continue such coverage for the child beyond the first 
31 days. If payment of an additional premium is required, the Insured must , within 31 days after the child's date of placement: 
1) notify the Company; and 2) pay the required additional premium for the continued coverage. If the Insured does not use 
this right as stated here, all coverage as to that child will terminate at the e nd of the first 31 days after  the child's date of 
placement.  
 
AIR AMBULANCE means medical transport by rotary wing air ambulance or fixed wing air ambulance as defined in 42 
CFR 414.605 . 
 
ALLOWED AMOUNT  means the maximum amount the Company is obligated to pay for Covered Medical Expenses . 
Allowed amounts are determined by the Company or determined as required by law, as described below.   
 
Allowed amounts are based on the following:  
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from a Preferred P rovider, allowed amounts are the Company’s contracted 
fee(s) with that provider.  
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from an Out-of-Network Provider  as described below , allowed amounts are 
determined as follows:  
 
1. For non -Medical Emergency Covered Medical Expenses received at certain Preferred Provider facilities 
from Out -of-Network Provider Physicians  when such services are either: a) Ancillary Services; or b) non -
Ancillary Services tha t have not satisfied the notice and consent criteria of  section 2799B -2(d) of the Public Health 
Service Act  with respect to a visit as defined by the Secretary, the allowed amount is based on one of the following 
in the order listed below as applicable:  
• The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer  Model Agreement.   
• The reimbursement rate as determined by state law.  Under specified Maryland law, for an on -call Physician or 
hospital based Physician who has obtained an assignment of benefits from the Insured, this is the amount 
required by §14 -205.2 of the Insurance Article.  
• The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out -of-Network 
Provider and the Company.  
• The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR) . 
 
For the purpose of this provision, “certain Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) 
of the Social Security Act ), a hospital outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) 
of the Social S ecurity Act ), an ambulatory surgical center (as described in section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Social Security 
Act), and any other facility specified by the Secretary.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  23  2. For Emergency Services provided by an Out -of-Network Provider , the allowed amount is based on one of the 
following in the order listed below as applicable:  
• The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer Model Agreement.   
• The reimbursement rate as determined by state law.  Under specified Maryland law, for an on -call Physician or  
hospital based Physician who has obtained an assignment of benefits from the Insured, this is the amount 
required by §14 -205.2 of the Insurance Article.  
• The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out -of-Network 
Provider and the Company.  
• The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR) . 
 
3. For Air Ambulance transportation provided by an Out -of-Network Provider , the allowed amount is based on 
one of the following in the order listed below as applicable:  
• The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer Model Agreement.   
• The reimbursement rate as determined by state law.  
• The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out -of-Network 
Provider and the Company.  
• The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR ). 
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from an Out -of-Network Provid er, except as described above, a llowed 
amounts are determined based on either of the following:  
 
1. Negotiated rates agreed  to by the Out -of-Network P rovider and either the Company or one of Our vendors, affiliates 
or subcontractors.  
2. If rates have not been negotiated, then one of the following amounts:  
• Allowed amounts are determined based on 140% of the published rates allowed by the Centers for Medicare 
and Medicaid Services (CMS) for Medicare for the same or similar service within the geographical market, with 
the exception of the following.  
o 50% of CMS for the same or similar freestanding labora tory service.  
o 45% of CMS for the same or similar Durable Medical Equipment from a freestanding supplier, or CMS 
competitive bid rates.  
o 70% of CMS for the same or similar physical therapy service from a freestanding provider.  
• When a rate for all other servi ces is not published by CMS for the service, the allowed amount is based on 20% 
of the provider’s billed charge.  
 
We update the CMS published rate data on a regular basis when updated data from CMS becomes available. These updates 
are typically put in plac e within 30 to 90 days after CMS updates its data.  
 
ANCILLARY SERVICES means items and services provided by Out -of-Network Provider Physicians at a Preferred Provider 
facility that are any of the following:  
 
1. Related to emergency medicine, anesthesiology, p athology, radiology, and neonatology.  
2. Provided by assistant surgeons, hospitalists, and intensivists . 
3. Diagnostic services, including radiology and laboratory services, unless such items and services are excluded from 
the definition of ancillary services as determined by the Secretary . 
4. Provided by such other specialist practitioners as determined by the Secretary , including non -physician 
practitioners . 
5. Provided by an Out -of-Network Provider Physician when no other Preferred Provider Physician is a vailable.  
 
COINSURANCE  means the percentage of Covered Medical Expenses that the Company pays.  
 
COMPLICATION OF PREGNANCY  means a condition:  1) caused by pregnancy; 2) requiring medical treatment prior to, or 
subsequent to termination of pregnancy; 3) th e diagnosis of which is distinct from pregnancy; and 4) which constitutes a 
classifiably distinct complication of pregnancy.  A condition simply associated with the management of a difficult pregnancy 
is not considered a complication of pregnancy.   
 
CONGENI TAL CONDITION  means a medical condition or physical anomaly arising from a defect existing at or from birth, 
including a hereditary defect. A congenital condition includes but is not limited to:  
1. Autism or autism spectrum disorder;  
2. Cerebral palsy;  
3. Intellectual disability;  
4. Down syndrome;   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  24  5. Spina bifida;  
6. Hydroencephalocele;  
7. Congenital or genetic development disabilities.  
 
CONTINUING CARE PATIENT means an Insured Person who, with respe ct to a provider or facility, meets  any of the 
following conditions :  
1. Is undergoing a course of treatment for a serious and complex condition from the provider or facility . 
2. Is undergoing a course of institutional or Inpatient care from the provider or facility . 
3. Is scheduled to undergo non -elective surgery from the provider, including receipt of postoperative care from such 
provider or facility with respect to such a surgery . 
4. Is pregnant and undergoing a course of treatment for the pregnancy from the provider or facility . 
5. Is or h as been determined to be terminally ill and is receiving treatment for such illness from such provider or facility.  
 
COPAY/COPAYMENT  means a specified dollar amount that the Insured is required to pay for certain Covered Medical 
Expenses.  
 
COSMETIC means t he use of a service or supply which is provided with the primary intent of improving appearance, not 
restoring bodily function or correcting deformity resulting from disease, trauma, or previous therapeutic intervention, as 
determined by the treating  Physi cian.  
 
COVERED MEDICAL EXPENSES  means  health care services and supplies which are all of the following:  
 
1. Provided for the purpose of preventing, evaluating, diagnosing or treating a Sickness or Injury.  
2. Specified as a covered medical expense in this Certifi cate under the Medical Expense Benefits or in the Schedule 
of Benefits.  
3. Not in excess of the Allowed Amount or the Recognized Amount when applicable.  
4. Not in excess of the maximum benefit payable per service as specified in the Schedule of Benefits.  
5. Not excluded in this Certificate under the Exclusions and Limitations.  
6. In excess of the amount stated as a Deductible, if an y. 
 
Covered Medical Expenses will be deemed "incurred" only:  1) when the covered services are provided; and 2) when a 
charge is made to the Insured Person for such services.  
 
CUSTODIAL CARE  means services that are any of the following:  
 
1. Non-health related services, such as assistance in activities.  
2. Health -related services that are provided for the primary purpose of mee ting the personal needs of the patient or 
maintaining a level of function (even if the specific services are considered to be skilled services), as opposed to 
improving that function to an extent that might allow for a more independent existence.  
3. Services that do not require continued administration by trained medical personnel in order to be delivered safely 
and effectively.  
 
DEDUCTIBLE  means if an amount is stated in the Schedule of Benefits or any endorsement to th e Policy  as a deductible, 
it shall mean the amount of Covered Medical Expenses that must be incurred by the Insured Person before becoming 
eligible for Policy benefits.  The deductible is subtracted from the amount or amounts otherwise payable as Covered Medical 
Expenses.  The deductible will app ly as specified in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
DEPENDENT  means the legal spouse or Domestic Partner of the Named Insured and their dependent children including a 
grandchild, child placed with the Insured for legal adoption or child for whom the Named Insure d is under testamentary or 
court appointed guardianship, other than temporary guardianship of less than 12 months duration and a child for whom the 
Named Insured is under a court order to provide coverage.  A dependent shall also mean a dependent of the In sured as 
the term is used in 26 U.S.C §§ 104, 105, 106, and any regulations adopted under those sections.  
 
If the Named Insured is under a court order to provide coverage, the following apply:  
1. The Insured will be allowed to include the child in the coverag e regardless of any enrollment period restrictions;  
2. If the eligible student is not currently enrolled, the Company shall enroll both the student and the child, without 
regard to enrollment period restrictions, within 20 business days after receipt of a med ical support notice from the 
eligible student.  
3. If the Insured has coverage but does not include the child in the enrollment then:  
a. The noninsuring  parent, child support enforcement agency, or the Department of Health may apply for 
coverage on behalf of the child; and  
b. The child may obtain coverage regardless of any enrollment period restrictions.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  25  4. Coverage for the child may not be terminated unless th e following written evidence is provided:  
a. The court order is no longer in effect;  
b. The child has been or will be enrolled under other reasonable health insurance coverage that will take effect 
on or before the effective date of the termination;  
c. The school has eliminated dependent coverage for all of its students; or  
d. The Insured is no longer a student.  
5. If the child has coverage through an Insured parent, the Company will:  
a. Provide membership cards or any other information necessary for the child to obtain benefits to the noninsuring 
parent; and  
b. Process the claims and make appropriate payment to the noninsuring parent, health care provider, or 
Department of Health if the noninsuring parent incurs expenses for health care provided to the child.  
 
Children shall cease to be dependent at the end of the month in which they attain the age of 26 years. If the child is covered 
under the Policy upon the attainment of the limiting age, such child shall remain a dependent under the Policy at the option 
of the  Named Insured until the Policy Termination Date.  
 
The attainment of the limiting age will not operate to terminate the coverage of such child while the child is and continues 
to be both:  
 
1. Incapable of self -support because of mental or physical incapacity.  
2. Chiefly dependent upon the Insured Person for support and maintenance.  
 
Proof of such incapacity and dependency shall be furnished to the Company: 1) by the Named Insured; and, 2) within 31 
days of the child's attainment of the limiting age. Subsequently, such proof must be given to the Company annually following 
the child's attainment of the limiting age.  
 
If a claim is denied under the Policy because the child has attained the limiting age for dependent children, the burden is 
on the Insured  Person to establish that the child is and continues to be incapacitated as defined by subsections (1) and (2). 
The regular dependent premium will be charged to continue coverage for mentally or physically in capacitated dependent 
children.  
 
DOMESTIC PARTNE R means a person of the same or opposite sex who is neither married nor related by blood or marriage 
within four degrees of consanguinity to the Named Insured but who is: 1) the Named Insured’s sole spousal equivalent; 2) 
lives together with the Named Insu red in the same residence; and 3) contributes with the Named Insured for each other’s 
welfare with the intention of remaining in the relationship indefinitely. Proof of a domestic partner relationship can be 
demonstrated by one of the following common prim ary financial interdependence documents:  
1. Common Primary Residence Documents  
a. A joint deed or mortgage agreement of the primary residence.  
b. Lease agreement showing common interest in primary residence.  
c. Driver’s license or State -issued identification listing a  common address.  
d. Utility or other household bill with both the Named Insured and the name of the domestic partner.  
 
2. Financial Interdependence Documents  
a. Designation of the domestic partner as primary beneficiary for life insurance or retirement benefits.  
b. Designation of the domestic partner as primary beneficiary in the other partner’s will.  
c. Powers of attorney for property and/or health care.  
d. Mutual valid written advance directive approving the other domestic partner as health care agent.  
e. Joint ownership of e ither a bank account or credit account.  
f. Joint ownership or holding of investments.  
g. Joint ownership or lease  of a motor vehicle.  
 
EMERGENCY SERVICES  means , with respect to a Medical Emergency , both : 
 
1. An appropriate  medical screening examination  that is within the capability of the emergency department of a 
Hospital , or an Independent F reestanding Medical Department , including Ancillary Services routinely available to 
the emergency department to evaluate such emergen cy medical condition .  
2. Any other examination and treatment within the capabilities of the staff and facilities available at the Hospital  or 
Independent F reestanding Medical Department to stabilize the patient  (regardless of the department of the Hospital 
in which such further exam and treatment is provided).  For the purpose of this definition, “to stabilize” has the 
meaning as given such term in section 1867(e)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395dd(e )(3)). 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  26  Emergency services include items and services otherwise covered under the Policy when provided by an Out -of-Network 
Provider or facility (regardless of the department of the Hospital in which the items and services are provided) after the 
patient i s stabilized and as part of outpatient observation, or an Inpatient stay or outpatient stay that is connected to the 
original emergency medical condition, unless each of the following conditions are met:  
 
1. The attending Physician or treating provider for th e Medical Emergency determines the patient is able to travel 
using nonmedical transportation or non -emergency medical transportation to an available Preferred Provider or 
Preferred Provider facility located within a reasonable distance taking into consider ation the patient’s medical 
condition.  
2. The provider furnishing the additional items and services satisfied the notice and consent criteria in accordance 
with applicable law.  The notice must have included all of the following:  
a. A list of participating provi ders at the facility who are able to furnish such items and services involved.  
b. Notification that the Insured Person, at their option, can be referred to a participating provider.  
c. A good faith estimated amount that the  Insured Person may be charged for item s or services furnished by the 
Out-of-Network Provider or facility with respect to the visit at such facility (including any item or service that is 
reasonably expected to be furnished by the nonparticipating emergency facility or nonparticipating provider s in 
conjunction with such items or services) . 
3. The Insured Person (or their authorized representative who is authorized under state law to provide consent on 
behalf of the Insured Person) is in such a condition to receive information as stated in 2 above a nd to provide 
informed consent in accordance with applicable law.  
4. The provider or facility satisfied any additional requirements or prohibitions as may be imposed by state law.  
5. The covered services are not rendered by  an on -call physician or hospital -based  Physician who has obtained 
an assignment of benefits from the Insured Person . 
 
The above conditions do not apply to unforeseen or urgent medical needs that arise at the time the service is provided 
regardless of whether notice and consent criteria has been satisfied.  
 
EXPERIMENTAL SERVICE  means medical, dental, surgical, diagnostic, psychiatric, substance misuse , or other health 
care services, technologies, supplies, treatments, procedures, drug therapies or devices that are not recognized as 
efficaciou s as that term is defined in the edition of the Institute of Medicine Report on Assessing Medical Technologies that 
is current when the care is rendered.  Experimental services do not include Approved Clinical Trials as specifically provided  
for in the Policy. 
 
HABILITATIVE SERVICES  means health care services that help a person keep, learn, or improve skills and functions for 
daily living when administered by a Physician pursuant to a treatment plan.  Habilitative services include occupational 
therapy, phys ical therapy , speech therapy , and other services for people with disabilities .  
 
Habilitative services do not include Experimental Services or services that are solely educational in nature or otherwise paid 
under state or federal law for purely educational services.  Custodial Care, respite care, day care, therapeutic recreation, 
vocational training and residential treatment are not habilitative services.   
 
A service that does not help the Insured Person to meet functional goals in a treatment plan within a prescribed time frame 
is not a habilitative service.   
 
HOSPITAL  means a licensed or properly accredited general hospital which:  1) is open at all times; 2) is operated primarily 
and continuously for the treatment of sick and injured  persons as inpatients; 3) is under the supervision of a staff of one or 
more legally qualified Physicians available at all times; 4) continuously provides on the premises 24 hour nursing service 
by Registered Nurses; 5) provides organized facilities for d iagnosis on the premises; and 6) is not primarily a clinic, nurs ing, 
rest or convalescent home . 
 
HOSPITAL CONFINED/HOSPITAL CONFINEMENT  means confinement as an Inpatient in a Hospital by reason of an 
Injury or Sickness for which benefits are payable.  
 
IMME DIATE FAMILY  means husband, wife, Domestic Partner, children, father, mother, brother, sister, and the 
corresponding in -laws.  
 
INDEPENDENT FREESTANDING EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT  means a health care facility that: 1) is geographically 
separate and distinct and l icensed separately from a Hospital under applicable state law; and 2) provides Emergency 
Services . 
 
INJURY  means bodily injury which is all of the following:   
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  27  1. Directly and independently caused by  an accident which is unrelated to any pathological, functio nal, or structural 
disorder .  
2. A source of loss.  
3. Treated by a Physician within 30 days after the date of accident.  
4. Sustained while the Insured Person is covered under the Policy .  
 
All related conditions and recurrent symptoms of the same or similar condition will be considered one injury.  Covered 
Medical Expenses incurred as a result of an injury that occurred prior to the Policy ’s Effective Date will be considered a 
Sickness under the Policy . 
 
INPATIENT  means an uninterrupted confinement that follows formal admission to a Hospital,  Skilled Nursing Facility  or 
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility by reason of an Injury or Sickness for which benefits are payable under the Policy .  
 
INPATI ENT REHABILITATION FACILITY  means a long term acute inpatient rehabilitation center, a Hospital (or special 
unit of a Hospital designated as an inpatient rehabilitation facility) that provides rehabilitation health services on an Inp atient 
basis as authori zed by law.  
 
INSURED PERSON  means: 1)  the Named Insured; and, 2) Dependents of the Named Insured, if:  1) the Dependent is 
properly enrolled in the Policy , and 2) the appropriate Dependent premium has been paid.  The term Insured also means 
Insured Person.  
 
INTENSIVE CARE  means: 1) a specifically designated facility of the Hospital that provides the highest level of medical care; 
and 2) which is restricted to those patients who are critically ill or injured.  Such facility must be separate and apart from the 
surgical recovery room and from rooms, beds and wards customarily used for patient confinement.  They must be: 1) 
permanently equipped with special life -saving equipment for the care of the critically ill or injured; and 2) under constant and 
continuous  observation by nursing staff assigned on a full -time basis, exclusively to the intensive care unit.  Intensive care 
does not mean any of these step -down units:  
 
1. Progressive care.  
2. Sub-acute intensive care.  
3. Intermediate care units.  
4. Private monitored rooms.  
5. Observation units.  
6. Other facilities which do not meet the standards for intensive care.  
 
MAINTENANCE MEDICATION  means a Prescription Drug anticipated to be used for six months or more to treat a chronic 
condition. Contact the Company to obtain a copy of the  list of Maintenance Medications.  
 
MEDICAL EMERGENCY  means , a medical condition (including Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorder) manifesting 
itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity ( including the sudden and unexpected onset of a condition invo lving severe 
pain) such that a prudent layperson, who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine, could reasonabl y expect 
the absence of immediate medical attention would result in any of the following:  
 
1. Placement of the Insured's health in jeop ardy.  
2. Serious impairment of bodily functions.  
3. Serious dysfunction of any body organ or part.  
4. In the case of a pregnant woman, serious jeopardy to the health of the woman or  unborn child . 
 
Expenses incurred for Medical Emergency will be paid only for Sickne ss or Injury which fulfills the above conditions.  
 
MENTAL ILLNESS  means a Sickness that is a mental, emotional or behavioral disorder listed in the mental health or 
psychiatric diagnostic categories in the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association . 
The fact that a disorder is listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association  does not 
mean that treatment of the disorder is a Covered Medical Expense. All related conditions and recu rrent symptoms of the 
same or similar condition will be considered one Sickness.  
 
NAMED INSURED  means an eligible, registered student of the Policyholder, if:  1) the student is properly enrolled in the 
Policy ; and 2) the appropriate premium for coverage has been paid.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  28   
NEWBORN INFANT  means any child born of an Insured while that person is insured under the Policy . Newborn Infants will 
be covered under the Policy  for the first 31 days after birth.  Coverage for such a child will be for Injury or Sickness, including 
medically diagnosed Congenital Condition , birth abnormalities, prematurity and nursery care; benefits will be the same as 
for the Insured Person who is the child's parent.  
 
When the Policy covers Dependents, the Insured will have the right to continue such coverage for the child beyond the first 
31 days. If payment of an additional premium is required, the Insured must, within 31 days after the child's birth: 1) notify  
the Company; and 2) pay the required additional premium, for the co ntinued coverage. If the Insured does not use this right 
as stated here, all coverage as to that child will terminate at the end of the first 31 days after the child's birth.  
 
OUT -OF-NETWORK PROVIDER  means a provider who does not have a contract with the C ompany to provide services to 
Insured Persons.  
 
OUT -OF-POCKET MAXIMUM  means the amount of Covered Medical Expenses that must be satisfied  by the Insured 
Person before Covered Medi cal Expenses will be paid at 100% for the remainder of the Policy Year . Refer to the Schedule 
of Benefits for details on how the out-of-pocket maximum applies.   
 
OUTPATIENT  means outpatient and out -of-hospital medical services.  
 
PHYSICIAN  means a health care provider, including a Community Health Resource, as defined in s. 19 -2101 of the Health  
- General Article, who is: 1) duly licensed under the Maryland Health Occupations Article or in accordance with the licensing 
requirements of the state in which the Covered Medical Expense is incurred;  2) acting within his/her lawful sco pe of practice; 
and 3) not a member of the person’s immediate family.  Physicians who make referrals prohibited by §1 -302 of Health 
Occupations Article will not be eligible for reimbursement.  
 
POLICY OR MASTER POLICY means the entire agreement issued to the  Policyholder that includes all o f the following:  
 
1. The Policy.  
2. The Policyholder Application.  
3. The Certificate of Coverage.  
4. The Schedule of Benefits.  
5. Endorsements.  
6. Amendments.  
 
POLICY YEAR  means the period of time beginning on the Policy Effective Date and ending on the Policy Termination Date.  
 
POLICYHOLDER means the institution of higher education to whom the Master Policy is issued.  
 
PREFERRED PROVIDER  means a provider that has a partici pation agreement in effect (either directly or indirectly) with 
the Company or Our affiliates to participate in Our preferred provider network.  Our affiliates are those entities affiliated  with 
the Company through common ownership or control with Us or wi th Our ultimate corporate parent, including direct and 
indirect subsidiaries.  
 
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS OR PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRODUCT  mean s a medication, product or device that has been 
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and that can, under federal or state law, be dispensed only according 
to a Prescription Order or Refill. A Prescription Drug Product includes a medication that is  appropriate for self -administration 
or administration by a non -skilled caregiver. For the pur pose of the benefits under the P olicy, this definition includes insulin.  
 
RECOGNIZED AMOUNT  means the amount which any Copayment, Coinsurance, and applicable Dedu ctible is based on 
for the below Covered Medical Expenses when provided by Out -of-Network Providers:  
 
1. Out-of-Network Emergency Services.  
2. Non-Emergency Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities by Out -of-Network Provider Physicians, 
when su ch services are either Ancillary Services or non -Ancillary Services that have not satisfied the notice and 
consent criteria of section 2799B -2(d) of the Public Health Service Act .  For the purpose of this provision, “certain 
Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) of the Social Security Act ), a hospital 
outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) of the Social Security Act ), an 
ambulatory surgical center described in section 1833(i)(1) (A) of the Social Security Act , and any other facility 
specified by the Secretary.  
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  29  The amount is based on one of the following in order listed below as applicable:  
 
1. An All  Payer Model Agreement  if adopted.  
2. State law.  Under specified Maryland law, for an on -call Physician or hospital based Physician who has obtained an 
assignment of benefits from the Insured, this is the amount required by §14 -205.2 of the Insurance Article.  
3. The lesser of the qualifying payment amount as determined under applicable law or the amount billed by the provider 
or facility.  
 
The recognized amount for Air Ambulance services provided by an Out -of-Network Provider will be calculated based on the 
lesser of the qualifying payment amount as determined under applicable state and fede ral law or the amount billed by the 
Air Ambulance service provider.  
 
Note:  Covered Medical Expenses that use the recognized amount to determine the Insured’s cost sharing may be higher 
or lower than if cost sharing for these Covered Medical Expenses were determined based on an Allowed Amou nt. 
 
REGISTERED NURSE  means a professional nurse (R.N.) who is not a member of the Insured Person's immediate family.  
 
SECRETARY means the term secretary as that term is applied in the No Surprises Act  of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act (P.L. 116 -260). 
 
REHABILITATIVE SERVICES means short -term O utpatient rehabilitation therapies administered by a Physician.  
 
SICKNESS  means sickness or disease of the Insured Person which causes incurred Covered Medical Expenses 
commencing  while the Insured Person is covered under the Policy . All related conditions and recurrent symptoms of the 
same or a similar condition w ill be consid ered one sickness. Covered Medical Expenses incurred as a result of an Injury 
that occurred prior to the Policy ’s Effective Date will be considere d a sickness under the Policy . 
 
SKILLED NURSING FACILITY  means a Hospital or nursing facility that is licensed  and operated as required by law.  
 
SOUND, NATURAL TEETH  means natural teeth, the major portion of the individual tooth is present, regardless of fillings 
or caps; and is not carious, abscessed, or defective.  
 
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER  means a Sickness that is  listed as an alcoholism and substance use disorder in the current 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association . The fact that a disorder is listed in the Diagnostic 
and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Associatio n does not mean that treatment of the disorder is a Covered 
Medical Expense. All related conditions and recurrent symptoms of the same or similar condition will be considered one 
Sickness.  
 
TELEHEALTH/TELEMEDICINE  means , as it relates to the delivery of health care services, the use of interactive audio, 
video, or other telecommunications or electronic technology by a licensed health care provider to deliver a health care 
service within the scope of practice of the health care provider at a lo cation other than the location of the Insured . Telehealth 
services will be provided regardless of the location of the Insured Person at the time of services . “Telehealth” includes audio -
only telephone conversation between a health care provider and an Insu red resulting in the delivery of billable Covered 
Medical Expenses. “Telehealth” does not include audio -only telephone conversation that does not result in the delivery of a 
billable Covered Medical Expense, electronic mail message, or facsimile transmissi on between a health care provider and 
the Insured Person .  
  
TOTALLY DISABLED  means a condition of a Named Insured which because of Sickness or Injury renders the Insured 
unable to actively attend classes.  A totally disabled Dependent is one who is unable  to perform all activities usual for a 
person of that age.  
 
URGENT CARE CENTER  means a facility that provides treatment required to prevent serious deterioration of the Insured 
Person’s health as a result of an unforeseen Sickness, Injury, or the onset of acute or severe symptoms.  
 
Section 1 0: Exclusions and Limitations  
No benefits will be paid for: a) loss or expense caused by, contributed to, or resulting from; or b) treatment, services or 
supplies for, at, or related to any of the following:  
 
1. Sexual dysfunction not related to organic disease.  
2. Cosmetic procedures, surgery, or related services to improve appearance.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  30  This exclusion does not apply to reconstructive procedures to  restore bodily function or correct deformity resulting 
from disease, trauma or congenital or developmental anomalies for which benefits are otherwise payable  under the 
Policy, as determined by the treating Physician.  
3. Personal care services and domiciliary care services . 
4. Dental treatment  which includes Hospital or profession al care in connection with:  
• The operation or treatment for the fitting or wearing of dentures.  
• Orthodontic care or malocclusion.  
• Operations on or for treatment of or to the teeth or supporting tissues of the teeth, except for removal of tumors 
and cysts or treatment of Injury to natural teeth due to an accident if the treatment is received within 6 months 
of the accident.  
• Dental implants.  
This exclusion does not apply to benefits specifically provided in Pediatric Dental Services and benefits specif ied 
under Dental Treatment in the Policy.  
5. Experimental Services.  
6. Foot care for the following : 
• Supportive devices for the foot , including arch supports, orthotic devices, in -shoe supports, orthopedic shoes, 
elastic supports or exams for their prescription o r fitting .  
• Routine foot care including the care, cutting and removal of corns, calluses,  and toenails.  
This exclusion does not apply to preventive foot care due to conditions associated with metabolic, neurologic, or 
peripheral vascular disease or treatme nt of a covered Injury or Sickness, as determined necessary by the treating 
Physician.  
7. Lifestyle improvements, including nutritional counseling, or physical fitness programs, except as specifically 
provided in the P olicy.  
8. The purchase, examination, or fitt ing of hearing aids or supplies, and tinnitus maskers. This exclusion does not 
apply to:  
• Treatment for h earing defects or hearing loss as a result of an infection or Injury.  “Hearing defects” means any 
physical defect of the ear which does or can impair normal hearing, apart from the disease process.  
• Hearing aids a s specifically provided in the P olicy.  
9. Immunizations  related to foreign travel.  
10. Injury or Sickness for which bene fits are paid or payable under any Workers' Compensation or Occupational 
Disease Law or Act, or similar legislation.  
11. Injury or Sickness outside the United States and its possessions, Canada or Mexico, except for a Medical 
Emergency when traveling for acade mic study abroad programs, business or pleasure.  
12. Services resulting from accidental bodily Injury arising out of a motor vehicle accident to the extent that services 
are payable under a medical expense payment provision of an automobile insurance policy.  
13. Reproductive  services as follows, except as specifically provided in Infertility Services :  
• Services to reverse a voluntary sterilization procedure.  
• Services for sterilization or reverse sterilization for a Dependent minor, except for FDA approved steriliza tion 
procedures for women with reproductive capacity.  
14. The purchase, examination, or fitting of eyeglasses or contact lenses, except for aphakic patients and soft or rigid 
gas permeable lenses or sclera shells intended for use in the treatment of an Injury or Sickness.  
This exclusion does not apply to benefits specifically provided in Pediatric Vision Services.  
15. Services performed or prescribed under the  direction of a person who is not a Physician or performed beyond the 
scope of practice of the Physician.  
16. Services for which the Insured Person is not legally, or as a customary practice, required to pay in the absence of 
an Insurance policy.  
17. Temporomandibular joint  syndrome (TMJ) treatment and treatment for craniomandibular pain syndrome (CPS), 
except surgery to treat joint abnormalities due to Injury and Sickness and where clear demonstrable radiographic 
evidence of joint abnormality exists.  
18. Services to the extent they are covered by any g overnment  unit, except for veterans in Veteran’s Administration or 
armed forces facilities for services received for which the Insured is liable .  
19. Medical or surgical treatment or regimen for reducing or controlling weight. This ex clusion does not apply to : 
• Benefits specifically provided in Benefits for Morbid Obesity.  
• Benefits specifically provided in Nutritional Services.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  31   
Section 11: How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness Benefits  
In the event of Injury or Sickness, students  should:  
 
1. Report to the University  Health Center or Infirmary for treatment, or when not in school, to their Physician or  Hospital.  
2. A Company claim form is not required for filing a claim. Insureds can submit cla ims online in their My Account at 
www.uhcsr.com/MyAccount or submit claims by m ail. If submitting by mail, send  to the address below all medical 
and hospital bills along with the patient's name and Insured student's name, address, SR ID number ( Insured’s 
insurance Company ID number) and name of the university under which the student is insured.  
3. Written proof of loss submitted by a provider must be furnished to the Company within 180 days from the date a 
covered service is rendered. Submit claims for payment  within one year after the date of service. Failure to furnish 
bills within one year after the date of service will not invalidate or reduce any claim if it was not reasonably possible 
to furnish the proof of loss within the time required and that proof of loss was submitted as soon as reasonably 
possible. When it is not reasonably possible to submit the bills with in the time required; the time limit to submit the 
claim will be extended to two years after the date of service. In the event the Insured Person is legally incapacitated 
and unable to submit a claim, the time limit to submit the claim will be suspended. W hen legal capacity is regained, 
the suspension period ends and the claim should be submitted as soon as reasonably possible. If the Insured 
doesn’t provide this information within the time allowed , benefits for that service may be denied at our discretion.   
 
If submit ting a claim by mail, send  the above information to the Company at: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources  
P.O. Box 809025   
Dallas, TX 75380 -9025  
 
Section 1 2: General Provisions  
GRACE PERIOD:   A grace period of 30 days  will be provided for the payment of each premium payment due after the first 
premium.  The Insured Person’s premium must be received during the grace period  to avoid a lapse in coverage, and the 
Insured Person must meet the eligibility requirements each ti me a premium payment is made.    
 
NOTICE OF CLAIM:  Written notice of claim must be given to the Company within 90 days  after the occurrence or 
commencement of any loss covered by the Policy, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible. Notice given by or on 
behalf of the Named Insured to the Company, P.O. Box 809025, Dallas, Texas 75380 -9025 with information sufficien t to 
identify the Named Insured shall be deemed notice to the Company. Failure to provide notice of claim within the time 
required will not invalidate nor reduce any claim if it was not reasonably possible to furnish notice of claim within the tim e 
require d and that notice of claim was submitted as soon as was reasonably possible.  
 
CLAIM FORMS:  Claim forms are not required.  
 
PROOF OF LOSS:  Written proof of loss submitted by a provider must be furnished to the Company within 180 days from 
the date a covered  service is rendered.  Written proof of loss must be furnished to the Company at its said office within one 
year after the date of  service . Failure to furnish such proof within one year after the date of service  will not invalidate nor 
reduce any claim if it was not reasonably possible to furnish proof  within the time required and that proof of loss was 
submitted as soon as was reasonably possible . When it is not reasonably possible for the Insured Person to subm it the 
claim within the time required; the time limit to submit the claim will be extended to two years after the date of service. In 
the event the Insured Person is legally incapacitated and unable to submit a claim, the time limit to submit the claim wil l be 
suspended. When legal capacity is regained, the suspension period ends and the claim should be submitted as soon as 
reasonably possible. In no event except in the absence of legal capacity shall written proofs of loss be furnished later than 
two years  from the  date of service .  
 
TIME OF PAYMENT OF CLAIM:  Indemnities payable under the Policy for any loss will be paid within 30 days upon receipt 
of due written proof of such loss.  
 
If the Company fails to pay a clean  claim for such loss within the 30 day  time limit stated above, the Company shall pay 
interest on the amount of the claim at the monthly rate of: 1.5% from 31st day through the 60th day, 2% from the 61st day 
through the 120th day and 2.5% after the 120th day.  
 
A clean claim is a claim for rei mbursement submitted to the Company that contains  essential data elements and any 
attachments defined  under Maryland Insurance Regulations COMAR 31.10.11. 02.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  32  PAYMENT OF CLAIMS:  All indemnities provided by the Policy will be payable  directly to the Hospital or person rendering 
such service , unless the Named Insured requests otherwise in writing not later than the time of filing proofs of such loss . 
Any accrued indemnities unpaid at the Named Insured ’s death may, at the option of the Company, be paid to  the estate of 
the Named Insured  or to an Insured or beneficiary who is a minor or otherwise not co mpetent to give a valid release.  The 
Company may pay up to an amount not exceeding $5,000 to any relative by blood or connection by marriage of the Insured 
or beneficiary who is deemed by the Company to be equitably entitled thereto . Any payment so made shall discharge the 
Company's obligation to the extent of the amount of benefits so p aid.  
 
Indemnities provided under the Policy for any of the Out -of-Network Provider services listed in the No Surprises Act  of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act  (P.L. 116 -260) will be paid directly to the Provider.  
 
Payment will not be made on claims, bi lls, or other demand for request for payment for health care services provided 
resulting from a health care provider’s prohibited referral of an Insured, as determined by the appropriate regulatory board,  
to a health care entity: (1) in which the health ca re provider or the provider in combination with the health care provider’s 
Immediate Family owns a beneficial interest; (2) in which the health care provider’s Immediate Family owns a benefit interest 
of three  percent or greater; or (3) with which the health care provider,  the health care provider’s Immediate Family, or the 
health care provider in combination with the health care provider’s Immediate Family has a compensation arrangement.  
 
Claims will be proce ssed and payment will be made to the non -insuring parent, health care provider or Department of Health 
for Cover ed Medical Expenses under the P olicy for an Insured Person if the non -insuring parent incurs charges for Covered 
Medical Expenses when the Compa ny has been notified that the Insured parent is under a medical support court order.  
Please see the definition of Dependent for additional details.  
 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION : As a part of Proof of Loss, the Company at its own expense shall have the right and 
opportunity : 1) to examine the person of any Insured Person when and as often as it may reasonably require during the 
pendency of a claim; and, 2) to have an autopsy made in case of death where it is not forbidden by law.  The Company has 
the right to secu re a second opinion regarding treatment or hospitalization.  Failure of an Insured to present himself or 
herself for examination by a Physician when requested shall authorize the Company to withhold any payment of Covered 
Medical Expenses until such examin ation is performed and Physician's report received.  
 
STANDARD OF TIME:  All times referenced shall be at the place the Policy is delivered.  
 
LEGAL ACTIONS : No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover on the Policy prior to the expiration of 60  days 
after written proofs of loss have been furnished in accordance with the requirements of the Policy.  No such action shall be 
brought after the expiration of three  years after the time written proofs of loss are required to be furnished.  
 
SUBROGATION : The Company shall be subrogated to all rights of recovery which any Insured Person has against any 
person, firm or corporation to the extent of payments for benefits made by the Company to or for benefit of an Insured 
Person.  The Company’s re covery amount will be reduced by the Company’s pro -rata share of the Insured’s court cost and 
attorney fees.  The Insured shall execute and deliver such instruments and papers as may be required and do whatever else 
is necessary to secure such rights to the  Company.  
 
RIGHT OF RECOVERY : Payments made by the Company which exceed the Covered Medical Expenses (after allowance 
for Deductible and Coinsurance clauses, if any) payable hereunder shall be recoverable by the Company from or among 
any persons, firms, or  corporations to or for whom such payments were made or from any insurance organizations who are 
obligated in respect of any covered Injury or Sickness as their liability may appear.  
 
MORE THAN ONE POLICY: Insurance effective at any one time on the Insure d Person under a like policy, or policies in 
this Company is limited to the one such policy elected by the Insured Person, his beneficiary or his estate, as the case may 
be, and the Company will return all premiums paid for all other such policies.  
 
Section 1 3: Notice of Complaint Process for Coverage Decisions  
RIGHT TO INTERNAL APPEAL  
Standard Internal Appeal  
 
The Insured Person has the right to request an Internal Appeal if the Insured Person disagrees with the Company’s denial, 
in whole or in part,  of a claim or request for benefits. The Insured Person, or the Insured Person’s Authorized Representative, 
must submit a written request for an Internal Appeal within 180 days of receiving a notice of the Company’s Coverage 
Decision . 
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  33  The written Interna l Appeal request should include:  
1. A statement specifically requesting an Internal Appeal of the decision;  
2. The Insured Person’s Name and ID number (from the ID card);  
3. The date(s) of service;  
4. The provider’s name;  
5. The reason the claim should be reconsidered; a nd 
6. Any written comments, documents, records, or other material relevant to the claim.  
 
Please contact the Customer Service Department at 800 -767-0700 with any questions regarding the Internal Appeal 
process.  The written request for an Internal Appeal shou ld be sent to : UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources, PO Box 
809025, Dallas, TX  75380 -9025.  
 
Notification of Coverage Decision  
Written notice will be provided within 30 calendar days when a Coverage Decision is made. The notification will include:  
1. The factual basis for the Company’s Coverage Decision, including references to specific criteria or standards and 
interpretive guidelines on which the determination was based;  
2. The Insured  Person  or Authorized Representative s, including health care providers,  right to file an appeal with the 
Company ; 
3. Details of the Company’s Internal appeal process and procedures, which shall include:  
a. A statement of the Insured Person or an Authorized Representative’s , including health care providers,  right to 
file a complaint w ith the Maryland Commissioner of Insurance without first filing an appeal with the Company, 
if there is a Urgent Medical Condition to do so as determined by the Commissioner;  
b. The address, telephone and fax number of the Maryland Commissioner of Insurance;  
c. The address, telephone and fax number, and e -mail address of the Health Advocacy Unit with a statement 
informing the Insured Person, or the Insured’s Authorized Representative , including a health care provider , 
assistance is available through the Health Ad vocacy Unit for both mediating and filing an appeal under the 
Company’s internal appeal process.  
 
Internal Appeal Process  
Within 180 days after receipt of a notice of  a Coverage Decision , an Insured Person or an Authorized Representative may 
submit a writt en request for an Internal Review of Coverage Decision.  
 
Upon receipt of the request for an Internal Review, the Company shall provide the Insured Person with the name, address 
and telephone of the employee or department designated to coordinate the Intern al Review for the Company.   
 
Within three  working days after receipt of the grievance, the Company shall provide notice that the Insured Person or 
Authorized Representative is entitled to:  
1. Submit written comments, documents, records, and other material rel ating to the request for benefits to be 
considered when conducting the Internal Review; and  
2. Receive from the Company, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, 
records and other information relevant to the Insured Person’s request for benefits.  
 
If the Company does not have sufficient information to complete the internal appeal process, the Company, within five 
working days of receipt of request for internal appeal shall:  
1. Notify the Insured Person or the Authorized Representative, the Company cannot proceed with the internal review 
unless additional information is provided; and  
2. Assist the Insured Person or Authorized Representative with gathering the necessary information.  
 
Prior to issuing or providing a notice of Final  Appeal Decision , the Company shall provide, free of charge and as soon as 
possible:  
1. Any new or additional evidence considered by the Company in connection with the grievance;  and 
2. Any new or additional rationale upon which the decision was based.  
 
The Insured Person or Authorized Representative shall have 10 calendar days to respond to any new or additional evidence 
or rationale.  
 
Within 30 calendar days after a Final Appeal Decision  has been made, the Company shall issue a writ ten notice of the Final 
Appeal Decision to the Insured Person or the Authorized Representative . 
 
The written notice of Final Appeal Decision for the Internal Review shall include:  
1. The titles and qualifying credentials of the reviewers participating in the Internal Review;  
2. Information sufficient to identify the claim involved in the  appeal , including the following:   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  34  a. The date of service;  
b. The name health care provider; and  
c. The claim amount;  
3. A statement that the diagnosis code and treatment code and their corres ponding meanings shall be provided to the 
Insured Person or the Authorized Representative , including the health care provider , upon request;  
4. For an Internal Review decision that upholds the Company’s original Coverage Decision : 
a. The factual basis for the Fi nal Appeal Decision , including the denial code and its corresponding meaning, as 
well as a description of the Company’s standard, if any, that was used in reaching the denial;  
b. Reference to the specific Policy provisions upon which the determination is base d; 
c. A statement that the Insured Person , or the Insured’s Authorized Representative , including the health care 
provider,  is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all 
documents, records, and other informatio n relevant to the Insured Person’s benefit request;  
d. If applicable, a statement that the Company relied upon a specific internal rule, guideline, protocol, or similar 
criterion and that a copy will be provided free of charge upon request;  
e. Instructions for r equesting:  (i) a copy of the rule, guideline, protocol or other similar criterion relied upon to make 
the Final  Appeal Decision ; and (ii) the written statement of the scientific or clinical rationale for the determination;  
5. A description of the procedures f or obtaining an External Independent Review  of the Final  Appeal Decision with the 
following information included:  
a. The factual basis for the Company’s Coverage Decision, including references to specific criteria or standards 
and interpretive guidelines on which the determination was based;  
b. The Insured Person’s right to file a complaint or request for External Independent Review with the 
Commissioner within four months after receiving the Company’s Final Appeal Decision;  
c. The Commissioner’s address, telephone number, and facsimile number;  
d. A statement the Health Advocacy Unit is available to assist the Insured Person with filing a request for External 
Independent R eview with the Commissioner; and  
e. The address, telephone and facsimile number, and e -mail address of the Health Advocacy Unit.  
 
Time periods shall be calculated based on the date the Company receives the request for the Internal Review, without 
regard to wh ether all of the information necessary to make the determination accompanies the request.  
 
Expedited Internal Review  
For Urgent Medical Conditions , an Insured Person  or their  Authorized Representative  may submit a request, either orally 
or in writing, for  an Expedited Internal Review (EIR) .   
 
An Urgent Medical Condition  means a condition that satisfies either of the following:  
1. A medical condition, including a physical condition, a mental condition, or a dental condition, where the absence of 
medical atten tion within 72 hours could reasonably be expected by an individual, acting on behalf of the Company, 
applying judgment of a prudent layperson who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine, to result 
in: 
a. Placing the Insured’s life or health in s erious jeopardy;  
b. The inability of the Insured to regain maximum function;  
c. Serious impairment to bodily function;  
d. Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part; or  
e. The Insured remaining seriously mentally ill with symptoms that cause the Insured to be a d anger to self or 
others;  
2. A medical condition, including a physical condition, a mental health condition, or a dental condition, where the 
absence of medical attention within 72 hours in the opinion of a health care provider with knowledge of the Insured’s 
medical condition, would subject the Insured to severe pain that cannot be adequately managed without the care 
or treatment that is the subject of the Coverage Decision.  
 
To request an Expedited Internal Appeal, please contact Claims Appeals at 888 -315-0447.  The written request for an 
Expedited Internal Appeal should be sent to : Claims Appeals, UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources, PO Box 809025, 
Dallas, TX  75380 -9025.  
 
Expedited Internal Review  Process  
The Insured Person or an Authorized Representative may submit an oral or written request for an Expedited Internal Review 
(EIR) of  a Coverage Decision : 
1. Involving Urgent Medical Conditions ; and  
2. Related to a concurrent review of an Urgent Medical Condition  involving an admission, availability of care, continued 
stay or health care service for an Insured Person who has received Emergency Services, but has not been 
discharged from a facility.   
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  35  All necessary information, including the Company’s decision, shall be transmitted to the Insured Person  or an Authorized 
Representative via telephone, facsimile or the most expeditious method available.  The Company shall, within one day after 
orally communicating the Company’s decision, send written notice of the Coverage Decision to the Insured Person or t he 
Authorized Representative. The Insured Person or the Authorized Representative shall be notified of the EIR decision no 
more than twenty -four (24) hours after the Company’s receipt of the EIR request.   
 
If the EIR request is related to a concurrent review Urgent Medical Conditions , benefits for the service will continue until the 
Insured Person has been notified of the final determination.  
 
At the same time an Insured Person or an Authorized Representativ e files an EIR request, the Insured Person or the 
Authorized Representative may file  an External Independent Review request with the Commissioner if the Insured Person 
has a medical condition where the timeframe for completion of an EIR would seriously jeo pardize the life or health of the 
Insured Person or would jeopardize the Insured Person’s ability to regain maximum function  
 
The notice of Final Appeal Decision  may be provided orally, in writing, or electronically.  
 
The written notice of Final Appeal Dec ision for the Expedited Internal Review shall include:  
 
1. The titles and qualifying credentials of the reviewers participating in the Internal Review.  
2. Information sufficient to identify the claim involved in the grievance, including the following:  
a. The date o f service;  
b. The name health care provider; and  
c. The claim amount.  
3. A statement that the diagnosis code and treatment code and their corresponding meanings shall be provided to the 
Insured Person or the Authorized Representative, upon request.  
4. For an Internal Review decision that upholds the Company’s original Coverage Decision:  
a. The factual basis for the Final Appeal Decision, including the denial code and its corresponding meaning, as 
well as a description of the Company’s standard, if any, that was u sed in reaching the denial;  
b. Reference to the specific Policy provisions upon which the determination is based;  
c. A statement that the Insured Person, or the Insured’s Authorized Representative, is entitled to receive, upon 
request and free of charge, reasona ble access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information 
relevant to the Insured Person’s benefit request;  
d. If applicable, a statement that the Company relied upon a specific internal rule, guideline, protocol, or similar 
criterion and that  a copy will be provided free of charge upon request; and  
e. Instructions for requesting: (i) a copy of the rule, guideline, protocol or other similar criterion relied upon to make 
the Final Appeal Decision; and (ii) the written statement of the scientific or  clinical rationale for the determination.  
5. A description of the procedures for obtaining an External Independent Review of the Final Appeal Decision with the 
following information included:  
a. The factual basis for the Company’s Coverage Decision, including r eferences to specific criteria or standards 
and interpretive guidelines on which the determination was based;  
b. The Insured’s right to file a complaint or request for External Independent Review with the Commissioner within 
four months after receiving the Co mpany’s Final Appeal Decision;  
c. The Commissioner’s address, telephone number, and facsimile number;  
d. A statement the Health Advocacy Unit is available to assist the Insured Person with filing a request for External 
Independent Review with the Commissioner; a nd 
e. The address, telephone and facsimile number, and e -mail address of the Health Advocacy Unit.  
 
RIGH T TO EXTERNAL INDEPENDENT REVIEW  
After exhausting the Internal Appeal process, and after receiving notice of a Final Appeal Decision, an Insured Person or 
Authorized Representative has four months to request an External Independent Review.  Upon request of an External 
Review, the Commissioner shall provide the Insured Person or the Authorized Representative with the appropriate forms to 
request the review. T he Commissioner shall make and issue in writing a final decision on all External Independent Review 
requests filed within the Commissioner’s jurisdiction.  
 
An Insured Person or Authorized Representative may submit a request for an External Independent Revi ew when the 
service or treatment in question is a Covered Medical Expense under the Policy . 
 
A request for an External Independent Review shall not be made until the Insured Person or Authorized Representative has 
exhausted the Internal Appeals Process.  The Internal Appeal Proce ss shall be considered exhausted if:  
1. The Company has issued a Final Appeal Decision  as detailed herein;   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  36  2. The Insured Person or the Authorized Representative filed a request for an Internal Appeal and has not received a 
written decis ion from the Company within 60 working  days after the date on which the appeal is filed and the Insured 
Person or Authorized Representative has not requested or agreed to a delay;  
3. The Insured Person or the Authorized Representative filed a request for an E xpedited Internal Appeal and has not 
received a written decision from the Company within twenty -four (24) hours and the Insured Person , Authorized 
Representative has not requested or agreed to a delay;  
4. The Company fails to strictly adhere to the Internal A ppeal process detailed herein;  
5. The Company agrees to waive the exhaustion requirement ; or 
6. The Insured Person or Authorized Representative provides sufficient and supporting information to the 
Commissioner demonstrating an Urgent Medical Condition for external review.  
 
Where to Send External Review Requests  
All types of External Review requests shall be submitted to the Maryland Insurance Administration at the following address:  
 
Maryland Insurance Administration  
Attn: Consumer Complaint Investigation  
Life and Health/Appeals and Grievance  
200 St. Paul Place, Suite 2700  
Baltimore, MD 21202  
Telephone: 410 -468-2000 or 1 -800-492-6116 TTY: 1 -800-735-2258  
Fax:  410 -468-2270 or 410 -468-2260 (Life and Health/Appeals and Grievance)  
 
APPEAL RIGHTS DEFINITIONS  
For the purpose of this Notice of Appeal Rights, the following terms are defined as shown below:  
 
Appeal means a protest filed by an Insured, an Insured’s Authorized Representative, or a health care provider with the 
Company under its Internal Appeal Process regarding a Coverage Decision concerning the Insured Person.  
 
Authorized Representative  means:  
1. A person to whom an Insured Person has given express written consent to represent the Insured Person , including 
a health care provider ; 
2. A person authorized by law to provide substituted consent for an Insured Person;  
3. An Insured Person’s family member or health care provider when the Insured Person is unable to provide consent; 
or 
4. In the case of an  Urgent Medical Condition , a health care professiona l with knowledge of the Insured Person’s 
medical condition.  
 
Complaint means a protest filed with the Commissioner involving a Coverage Decision.  
 
Coverage Decision  means:  
1. A determination by the Company that the Insured is not eligible for coverage under the Policy as an Insured Person;  
2. An initial determination by the Company or the Company’s representative that results in noncoverage of a health 
care service;  
3. Any determination by the Company that results in the rescission of an Insured’s co verage under the Policy.  
 
Evidenced –based Standard  means the conscientious, explicit and judicious use of the current best evidence based on 
the overall systematic review of the research in making decisions about the care of individual patients.  
 
Final Appeal Decision  means a  determination arising from an appeal filed with the Company under its appeal process 
involving a Covered Medical Expense issued at the completion of the Company’s internal appeal process or Coverage 
Decision  for which the internal appeals process has been deemed exhausted in accordance with this notice.  
 
Retrospective Review  means any review of a request for a Covered Medical Expen se. Retrospective review does not 
include the review of a claim that is limited to the veracity of documentation or accuracy of coding.  
 
Urgent Medical Condition  means a condition that satisfies either of the following : 
1.  A medical condition, including a ph ysical condition, a mental condition, or a dental condition, where the absence 
of medical attention within 72 hours could reasonably be expected by an individual, acting on behalf of the Company, 
applying judgment of a prudent layperson who possesses an av erage knowledge of health and medicine, to result 
in: 
a. Placing the Insured’s life or health in serious jeopardy;  
b. The inability of the Insured to regain maximum function;   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  37  c. Serious impairment to bodily function;  
d. Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part;  or 
e. The Insured remaining seriously mentally ill with symptoms that cause the Insured to be a danger to self or 
others;  
2. A medical condition, including a physical condition, a mental health condition, or a dental condition, where the 
absence of medical atte ntion within 72 hours in the opinion of a health care provider with knowledge of the Insured’s 
medical condition, would subject the Insured to severe pain that cannot be adequately managed without the care 
or treatment that is the subject of the Coverage D ecision . 
 
Questions Regarding Appeal Rights  
Contact Customer Service at 1 -800-767-0700 with questions regarding the Insured Person’s rights to an Internal Appeal 
and External Review . 
 
Other resources are available to help the Insured Person navigate the appeals process.  For questions about appeal rights, 
your state consumer assistance program may be able to assist you at:  
 
Health Education and Advocacy Unit of the Attorney General   
200 St. Paul Place, 16th Floor   
Baltimore, MD  21202   
(410) 528-1840 or 1 -877-261-8807  
www.oag.state.md.us/Consumer/HEAU.htm  
heau@oag.state.md.us  
 
Section 1 4 Maryland Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act Subscriber Notice  
MENTAL HEALTH PARITY AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT (MHPAEA) COMPLIANCE  
For full mental health benefit information please refer to the Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorder Treatment benefit  
in this certificate, or contact UnitedHealthcare at the number on the back of your health plan ID card.  In addition, you may  
refer t o the Maryland Insurance Administration website: http//insurance.maryland.gov.  
 
Section 15: Online Access to Account Information  
UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources Insureds have online access to claims status, EOBs, ID cards, network providers, 
corresponde nce, and coverage information by logging in to My Account  at www.uhcsr.com/myaccount. Insured students 
who don’t already have an online account may simply select the “ Create Account ” link. Follow the simple, onscreen 
directions to establish an online accou nt in minutes using the Insured’s  7-digit Insurance ID number or the email address 
on file.  
 
As part of UnitedHealthcare  Student  Resources’ environmental commitment to reducing waste, we’ve adopted a number of 
initiatives designed to preserve our precious resources while also protecting the security of a student’s personal health 
information.  
 
My Account  now includes a message center - a self -service tool that provides a quick and easy way to view any email 
notifications the Company  may have sent. Notifications are securely sent directly to the Insured student’s email address. If 
the Insured student prefers to receive paper copies, he or she may opt -out of electronic delivery by going into My Profile 
and making the change there.  
 
Section 16: ID Card s  
Digital ID cards will be made available to each Insured Person.  The Company  will send  an email  notification  when  the 
digital  ID card is available  to be  downloaded from My Account . An Insured  Person  may also use My Account  to request  
delivery  of a permanent  ID card through  the mail.  
 
Section 17: UHCSR Mobile App  
The UHCSR Mobile App is available for download from Google Play or the App Store. Features of the Mobile App include 
easy access to:  
• ID Cards – view, save to your device, fax or email directly to your provider. Covered Dependents are also included.  
• Provider Search – search for In -Network participating healthcare or Mental He alth providers, find contact 
information for the provider’s office or facility , and locate the provider’s office or facility on a map . 
• Find My Claims – view claims received within the past 120 days for both the primary Insured and covered 
Dependents; inclu des provider, date of service, status, claim amount and amount paid.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  38   
Section 18: Important Company Contact Information  
The Policy  is Underwritten by:  
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
Administrative Office:  
UnitedHealthcare  Student  Resources  
P.O. Box 809025  
Dallas, Texas 75380 -9025  
1-800-767-0700  
Website: www.uhcsr.com  
 
UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources  
805 Executive Center Drive West, Suite 220  
St. Petersburg, FL 33702  
Email: info@uhcsr.com  
 
Customer Service :  
800-767-0700   
(Customer  Services Representatives are available Monday - Friday, 7:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. (Central Time))  
 
Section 19: Pediatric Dental Services Benefit  
Benefits are provided for Covered Dental Services, as described below, for Insured Persons under the age of 19. Benefits 
terminate on the earlier of: 1) last day of the month the Insured Person reaches the age of 19; or 2) the date the Insured 
Person’s coverage under the Policy terminates.  
 
Section 1: Accessing Pediatric Dental Services  
 
Network and Out-of-Network B enefits  
Network Benefits  - these benefits apply when the Insured Person chooses to obtain Covered Dental Services from a 
Network Dental Provider. Insured Persons generally are required to pay less to the Network Dental Provider than they would 
pay for serv ices from a n out -of-Network provider. Network Benefits are determined based on the contracted fee for each 
Covered Dental Service. In no event, will the Insured Person be required to pay a Network Dental Provider an amount for 
a Covered Dental Service that is greater than  the contracted fee.  
 
In order for Covered Dental Services to be paid as Network Benefits, the Insured Person must obtain all Covered Dental 
Services directly from or through a Network Dental Provider.  
 
Insured Persons must always check  the participation status of a provider prior to seeking services. From time to time, the 
participation status of a provider may change. The Insured Person can check  the participation status by calling the Company 
and/or th e provider. The Company can help in referring the Insured Person to Network Dental Provider s. 
 
The Company will make a Directory of Network Dental Providers  available to the Insured Person. The Insured Person can 
also call the Company at the number stated on their identification (ID) card to determine which providers participate in the 
Network.  
 
Out-of-Network Benefits  - these benefits apply when the Insured Person decides to obtain Covered Dental Services from 
out-of-Network Dental Providers. Insured Pers ons generally are required to pay more to the provider than for Network 
Benefits. Out-of-Network Benefits are determined based on the Usual and Customary Fee for similarly situated Network 
Dental Providers for each Covered Dental Service. The actual charge  made by a n out-of-Network Dental Provider for a 
Covered Dental Service may exceed the Usual and Customary Fee. Insured Persons may be required to pay a n out-of-
Network Dental Provider an amount for a Covered Dental Service in excess of the Usual and Customary Fee. When the 
Insured Person obtains Covered Dental Services from out-of-Network Dental Providers, the Insured Person must file a claim 
with the Company to be reimb ursed for Allowed Dental Amounts .  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  1  What Are Covered Dental Services ? 
The Insured Person is eligible for benefits for Covered Dental Services if such Dental Services are provided by or under the 
direction of a Network Dental Provider.  
 
Benefits are available only for Covered Dental Services  listed under this provision . The f act that a Dental Provider has 
performed or prescribed a procedure or treatment, or the fact that it may be the only available treatment for a dental diseas e, 
does not mean that the procedure or treatment is a Covered Dental Service.  
 
What Is a Pre-Treatme nt Estimate ? 
If the charge for a Dental Service is expected to exceed $500 or if a dental exam reveals the need for fixed bridgework, the 
Insured Person may notify the Company of such treatment before treatment begins and receive a pre -treatment estimate. 
To receive a pre -treatment estimate, the Insured Person or Dental Provider should send a notice to the Company, via claim 
form, within 20 calendar days of the exam. If requested, the Dental Provider must provide the Company with dental x -rays, 
study models  or other information necessary to evaluate the treatment plan for purposes of benefit determination.  
 
The Company will determine if the proposed treatment is a Covered Dental Service and will estimate the amount of payment. 
The estimate of benefits payabl e will be sent to the Dental Provider and will be subject to all terms, conditions and provisions 
of the Policy. Clinical situations that can be effectively treated by a less costly, clinically acceptable alternative proced ure 
will be assigned a benefit ba sed on the less costly procedure.  
  
A pre -treatment estimate of benefits is not an agreement to pay for expenses. This procedure lets the Insured Person know 
in advance approximately what portion of the expenses will be considered for payment.  
 
Section 2: Benefits for Pediatric Dental Services  
 
Benefits are provided for the Dental Services stated in this Section when such services are:  
A. Provided by or under the direction of a Dental Provider.  
B. Clinical situations that can be effectively treated by a less costly, dental appropriate alternative procedure will be 
assigned a benefit based on the least costly procedure.  
C. Performed in a dental setting not including hospitalization and facility char ges. 
D. Not excluded as described in Section 3:  Pediatric Dental Exclusions  of this  provision . 
 
Benefits for Covered Dental Services are subject to satisfaction of the Dental Services Deductible.  
 
Network Benefits:  
Benefits for Allowed Dental Amounts  are determined as a percentage of the negotiated contract fee between the Company 
and the provider rather than a percentage of the provider's billed charge. The Company’s negotiated rate with the provider 
is ordinarily lower than the provider's bil led charge.  
 
A Network provider cannot charge the Insured Person or the Company for any service or supply that is not a Covered Dental 
Service . If the Insured Person agrees to receive a service or supply that is not a Covered Dental Service,  the Network 
provider may charge the Insured Person. However, these charges will not be considered Covered Dental Services and 
benefits will not be payable.  
 
Out-of-Network Benefits:  
Benefits for Allowed Dental Amounts  from out-of-Network providers are determined as a pe rcentage of the Usual and 
Customary Fees. The Insured Person must pay the amount by which the out-of-Network provider's billed charge exceeds 
the Allowed Dental Amounts . The U sual and Customary Fee for Covered Dental Services  provide d by a n out-of-Network 
provider will not be less than the Allowed Dental Amount  for a similarly licensed Network provider  for the same service in 
the same geographic region.  
 
Dental Services Deductible  
Benefits for pediatric Dental Services provided are not subject to t he Policy Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule of 
Benefits . Instead, benefits for pediatric Dental Services are subject to a separate Dental Services Deductible.  
 
For any combination of Network and Out-of-Network Benefits, the Dental Services Deductib le per Policy Year is $ 500 per 
Insured Person.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  2   
Any amount the Insured Person pays in Deductibles for Dental Care Services applies to the Out -of-Pocket Maximum stated 
in the P olicy Schedule of Benefits.   
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum  - any amount the Insured Person pays in Coinsurance for pediatric Dental Services applies to 
the Out -of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits . Any amount the Insured Person pays in Copayments 
for pediatric Dental Services applies to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits . 
 
Benefits  
 
Dental Services Deductibles are calculated on a Policy Year basis.  
 
When benefit limits apply, the limit stated refers to any combination of Network Benefits and Out-of-Network Benefits unless 
otherwise specifically stated.  
 
Benefit limits are calculated on a Policy Year basis unless otherwise specifically stated.  
 
Benefit Description  
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
Diagnostic Services - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
Evaluations (Checkup Exams)  
 
Periodic Oral Evaluation provided in 
accordance with the periodicity 
schedule developed by the American 
Academy of Pediatric Dentistry.  
D0120 - Periodic oral evaluation per 
provider or location  
D0140 - Limited oral evaluation - 
problem focused  
D9995 - Teledentistry - synchronous - 
real time encounter  
D9996 - Teledentistry - asynchronous 
- information stored and forwarded to 
dentist for subsequent review  
 
D0145 - Oral Evaluation for patients 
under three years of age  
D0150 - Comprehensive oral 
evaluation - new or established patient  
D0180 - Comprehensive periodontal 
evaluation - new or established 
patient  
 
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit .   
 
D0160 - Detailed and extensive oral 
evaluation - problem focused, by 
report  100% 100% 
Intraoral Radiographs (X -ray) 
 
Limited to 1 series of films per 36 
months per provider or location.  
 
D0210 - Intraoral complete series of 
radiographic images  100% 100%  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  3  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
 
D0709 - Intraoral - complete series of 
radiographic images - image capture 
only  
The fo llowing services are not subject 
to a frequency limit .   
 
D0220 - Intraoral - periapical first 
radiographic image  
D0230 - Intraoral - periapical - each 
additional radiographic image  
D0240 - Intraoral - occlusal film  
D0250 - Extra -oral - 2D projection  
D0706 - Intraoral - occlusal 
radiographic image - image capture 
only 
D0707 - Intraoral - periapical 
radiographic image - image capture 
only  100% 100% 
The following services is not subject 
to a frequency limit . 
 
D0270 - Bitewing - single radiogr aphic 
image  100%  100%  
Any combination of the following 
services is limited to 2 series of films 
per 12 months.  
 
D0272 - Bitewings - two radiographic 
images  
D0273 - Bitewings - three films  
radiographic images  
D0274 - Bitewings - four radiographic 
images  
D0277 - Vertical bitewings  - 7 to 8 
radiographic images  
D0708 - Intraoral - bitewing 
radiographic image - image capture 
only  100% 100% 
Limited to 1 set per 36 months.  
 
D0310 - Sialography  
D0330 - Panoramic radiograph image  
D0701 - Panoramic radiographic image 
- image capture only.  
D0702 - 2-D Cephalometric 
radiographic image - image capture 
only 
D0704 - 3-D Photographic image - 
image capture only  100% 100% 
The following service is limited to 2 
images per 12 months.  
 
D0705 - Extra -oral posterior dental 
radiographic image - image capture 
only 100% 100%  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  4  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit . 
 
D0340 - 2-D Cephalometric 
radiographic image - acquisition, 
measurement and analysis  
D0350 - 2-D Oral/Facial photographic 
images  obtained intra -orally or extra -
orally   
D0460 - Pulp Vitality Test  
D0470 - Diagnostic casts  
D0703 - 2-D Oral/facial photographic 
image obtained intra -orally or extra -
orally - image capture only  100% 100% 
Preventive Services  - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  Pediatric dental services 
falling under the USPSTF and HRSA  guidelines will not be subject to cost sharing . 
Dental Prophylaxis (Cleanings)  
 
The following services are limited to  1 
every 120 days . 
 
D1110 - Prophylaxis - adult  
D1120 - Prophylaxis - child  100% 100% 
Fluoride Treatments  
 
Topical fluoride varnish is limited to 8 
units per 12 months for ages 0 to 2 
years, 4 units per 12 months for ages 
over 3 years, and 4 units per 12 
months per provider or location.  
Topical application of fluoride is 
limited to 1 treatment per 120 days.  
 
D1206 - Topical application of fluoride 
varnish  
D1208 - Topical application of  
fluoride - excluding varnish  100% 100% 
Sealants (Protective Coating)  
 
The following services are l imited to 
once per permanent molar every 36 
months.  
 
D1351 - Sealant - per tooth  
D1352 - Preventive resin restorations 
per tooth in moderate to high caries 
risk patient - permanent tooth  100% 100% 
Space Maintainers (Spacers)  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D1510 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
unilateral  - per quadrant  
D1516 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
bilateral maxillary  100% 100%  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  5  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D1517 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
bilateral mandibular  
D1520 - Space maintainer - 
removable - unilateral  - per quadrant  
D1526 - Space maintainer - 
removable - bilateral maxillary  
D1527 - Space maintainer - removable 
- bilateral mandibular  
D1551 - Re-cement or re -bond bilateral 
space maintainer - maxillary  
D1552 - Re-cement or re -bond bilateral 
space maintainer - mandibular  
D1553 - Re-cement or re -bond 
unilateral space maintainer - per 
quadrant  
D1555 - Removal of fixed s pace 
maintainer  
D1556 - Removal of fixed unilateral 
space maintainer - per quadrant  
D1557 - Removal of fixed bilateral 
space maintainer - maxillary  
D1558 - Removal of fixed bilateral 
space maintainer - mandibular  
D1575 - Distal shoe space maintainer 
- fixed - unilateral per quadrant  
Minor Restorative Services - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
Amalgam Restorations (Silver Fillings)  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D2140 - Amalgams - one surface, 
primary or permanent  
D2150 - Amalgams - two surfaces, 
primary or permanent  
D2160 - Amalgams - three surfaces, 
primary or permanent  
D2161 - Amalgams - four or more 
surfaces, primary or permanent  50%  50%  
Composite Resin Restorations (Tooth 
Colored Fillings)  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D2330 - Resin -based composite - one 
surface, anterior  
D2331 - Resin -based composite - two 
surfaces, anterior  
D2332 - Resin -based composite - 
three surfaces, anterior  
D2335 - Resin -based composite - four 
or more surfaces or involving incisal  
angle (anterior ) 
D2390 - Resin -based composite 
crown, anterior  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  6  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D2391 - Resin -based composite - one 
surface, posterior  
D2392 - Resin -based composite - two 
surfaces, posterior  
D2393 - Resin - based composite - 
three surfaces, posterior  
D2394 - resin -based composite - 4 or 
more surfaces, posterior  
Crowns/Inlays/Onlays - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following services are subject to a 
limit of 1 time every 36 months.  Pre-
fabricated stainless steel permanent 
tooth crown is limited to 1 time per 
tooth per 36 months.  
 
D2542 - Onlay - metallic - two 
surfaces  
D2543 - Onlay - metallic - three 
surfaces  
D2544 - Onlay - metallic - four or 
more surfaces  
D2721 - Crown - resin wi th 
predominantly base metal  
D2740 - Crown - porcelain/ceramic  
D2750 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
high noble metal  
D2751 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
predominately base metal  
D2752 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
noble metal  
D2753 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
titanium and titanium alloys  
D2780 - Crown - 3/4 cas t high noble 
metal  
D2781 - Crown - 3/4 cast 
predominately base metal  
D2782 - Crown - 3/4 cast noble metal  
D2783 - Crown - 3/4 
porcelain/ceramic  
D2790 - Crown - full cast high noble 
metal  
D2791 - Crown - full cast 
predominately base metal  
D2792 - Crown - full cast noble metal  
D2794 - Crown - titanium  and titanium 
alloys  
D2930 - Prefabricated stainless steel 
crown - primary tooth  
D2931 - Prefabricated stainless steel 
crown - permanent tooth  
D2932 - Prefabricated resin crown  
D2933 - Prefabricated stainless steel 
crown with resin window  
D2934 - Prefabricated esthetic coated 
stainless steel c rown - primary tooth  
 50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  7  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D2510  - Inlay - metallic - one surface  
D2520 - Inlay - metallic - two surfaces  
D2530 - Inlay - metallic - three 
surfaces  
D2910 - Re-cement or re-bond inlay 
D2920 - Re-cement or re-bond crown  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit. 
 
D2940 - Protective restoration  50%  50%  
The following service is limited to 1 
time per patient per tooth every 36 
months.  
D2928 - Prefabricated 
porcelain/ceramic crown - permanent 
tooth  
 
The following services are limited to 1 
time per patient per tooth every 60 
months.  
 
D2929 - Prefabricated 
porcelain/ceramic crown - primary tooth  
D2950 - Core buildup, including any 
pins when required  
D2952 - Post and core in addition to 
crown, indirectly fabricated  
D2955 - Post removal  
D2960 - Labial veneer (resin laminate) 
- chairside  
D2961 - Labial veneer (resin laminate) 
- laboratory  
D2962 - Labial veneer (porcelain 
laminate)  50%  50%  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D2951 - Pin retention - per tooth, in 
addition to restoration  50%  50%  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D2954  - Prefabricated post and core 
in addition to crown  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit . 
 
D2980 - Crown repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure  
D2981 - Inlay repair  necessitated by 
restorative material failure  
D2982 - Onlay repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure  
 50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  8  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
Endodontics - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3110 - Pulp Cap - direct  
D3120 - Pulp Cap - Indirect  
D3220 - Therapeutic pulpotomy 
(excluding final restoration)  50%  50%  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3221 - Pulpal debridement, primary 
and permanent teeth  
D3222 - Partial pulpotomy for 
apexogenesis - permanent tooth with 
incomplete root development  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3230 - Pulpal therapy (resorbable 
filling) - anterior  - primary tooth 
(excluding final restoration)  
D3240 - Pulpal therapy (resorbable 
filling) - posterior, primary tooth 
(excluding final restoration)  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3310 - Endodontic therapy anterior 
tooth  (excluding final restoration)  
D3320  - Endodontic therapy premolar 
tooth  (excluding final restoration)  
D3330 - Endodontic therapy molar 
tooth (excluding final restoration)  
D3346 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - anterior  
D3347 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - bicuspid  
D3348 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - molar  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3351 - Apexification/recalcification - 
initial visit  
D3352 - 
Apexification/recalcification /pulpal 
regeneration - interim medication 
replacement  
D3353 - Apexification/recalcification - 
final visit  50%  50%  
The following service s are not subject 
to a freque ncy limit.  
 
D3355 - Pulpal regeneration - initial 
visit 50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  9  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D3356 - Pulpal regeneration - interim 
medication replacement  
D3357 - Pulpal regeneration - 
completion of treatment  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3410 - Apicoectomy - anterior  
D3421 - Apicoectomy -  premolar (first 
root) 
D3425 - Apicoectomy - molar  (first 
root) 
D3426 - Apicoectomy - (each 
additional root ) 
D3450 - Root amputation - per root  
D3427 - Periradicular surgery without 
apicoectomy  
D3430 - Retrograde filling - per root  
D3471 - Surgical repair of root 
resorption - anterior  
D3472 - Surgical repair of root 
resorption - premolar  
D3473 - Surgical repair of root 
resorption - molar  
D3501 - Surgical exposure of root 
surface without apicoectomy or repair 
of root resorption - anterior  
D3502 - Surgical exposure of root 
surface without apicoectomy or repair 
of root resorption - premolar  
D3503 - Surgical exposure of root 
surface without ap icoectomy or repair 
of root resorption - molar  50%  50%  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D3470 - Intentional re -implantation  50%  50%  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D3911 - Intraorifice  barrier  
D3920 - Hemisection (including any 
root removal), not including root canal 
therapy  50%  50%  
Periodontics - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following services are limited to a 
frequency of 1 every 24 months, per 
quadrant.  
 
D4210 - Gingivectomy or 
gingivoplasty - four or more 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded 
spaces per quadrant  
D4211 - Gingivectomy or 
gingivoplasty - one to three 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded 
spaces per quadrant  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  10  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
The following services are limited to 1 
every 24 months, per quadrant.  
 
D4230 - Anatomical crown exposure - 
four or more teeth  
D4231 - Anatomical crown exposure - 
one to three teeth per quadrant  
D4240 - Gingival flap procedure, 
including root planing - four or more 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded 
spaces per quadrant  
D4241 - Gingival flap procedure, 
including root planing, one to three 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded 
spaces per quadrant  50%  50%  
The following services are limited to 1 
every 24 months, per tooth.  
 
D424 9 - Clinical crown lengthening - 
hard tissue  50%  50%  
The following services are limited to 1 
every 24 months, per quadrant.  
 
D4260 - Osseous surgery  (including 
flap entry and closure) - four or more 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded 
spaces per quadrant  
D4261 - Osseous surgery (including 
flap entry and closure), one to three 
contiguous teeth or bounded teeth 
spaces per quadrant  
D4263 - Bone replacement  graft 
retained natural tooth - first site in 
quadrant  50%  50%  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D4270 - Pedicle soft tissue graft 
procedure  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D4273 - Autogenous  connective 
tissue graft procedure, per first tooth  
implant or edentulous tooth position in 
graft 
D4275 - Non-autogenous connective 
tissue graft first tooth implant  
D4277 - Free soft tissue graft 
procedure - first tooth  
D4278 - Free soft tissue g raft 
procedure each additional contiguous 
tooth  
D4322 - Splint - intra-coronal, natural 
teeth or prosthetic crowns  
D4323 - Splint - extra -coronal, natural 
teeth or prosthetic crowns  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  11  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
The following services are limited to 1 
time per quadrant every 24 months.  
 
D4320 - Provisional splinting - 
Intracoronal  
D4321 - Provisional splinting - 
extracoronal  
D4341 - Periodontal scaling and root 
planing - four or more teeth per 
quadrant  
D4342 - Periodontal scaling and root 
planing - one to three teeth per 
quadrant  
D4346 - Scaling in presence of 
generalized moderate or severe 
gingival inflammation - full mouth, 
after oral evaluation  50%  50%  
The following service is limited to a 
frequency to 1 per 24 months.  
 
D4355 - Full mouth debridement to 
enable comprehensive oral evaluation 
and diagnosis on subsequent visit  50%  50%  
The following service s are limited to 4 
times every 12 months.  
 
D4910 - Periodontal maintenance  
D4920 - Unscheduled dressing 
change (by someone other than 
treating dentist or their staff)  50%  50%  
Removable Dentures - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following services are limited to a 
frequency of 1 every 60 months.  
 
D5110 - Complete denture - maxillary  
D5120 - Complete denture - 
mandibular  
D5130 - Immediate denture - maxillary  
D5140 - Immediate denture - 
mandibular  
D5211 - Maxillary partial denture - 
resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, 
and teeth)  
D5212 - Mandibular partia l denture - 
resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, 
and teeth)  
D5213 - Maxillary partial denture - 
cast metal framework with resin 
denture bases (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5214 - Mandibular partial denture  - 
cast metal framework with resin 
denture bases (including 50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  12  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5221 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5222 - Immediate mandibular parti al 
denture - resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5223 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - cast metal framework with 
resin denture bases (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5224 - Immediate mandibular partial 
denture - cast metal framework with 
resin denture bases (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth)  
D5227 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - flexible base (including any 
clasps, rests, and teeth)  
D5228 - Imme diate mandibular partial 
denture - flexible base (including any 
clasps, rests, and teeth)  
D5225 - Maxillary partial denture -
flexible base  
D5226 - Mandibular partial denture - 
flexible base  
D5282 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece cast metal  
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests, and teeth), maxillary  
D5283 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece cast metal 
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests, and teeth), mandibular  
D5284 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece flexible base 
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests, and teeth) - per quadrant  
D5286 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece resin (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, 
and teeth) - per quadrant  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D5410 - Adjust complete denture - 
maxillary  
D5411 - Adjust complete denture - 
mandibular  
D5421 - Adjust partial denture - 
maxillary  
D5422 - Adjust partial denture - 
mandibular  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  13  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D5511 - Repair br oken complete 
denture base - mandibular  
D5512 - Repair broken complete 
denture base - maxillary  
D5520 - Replace missing or broken 
teeth - complete denture (each tooth)  
 
D5611 - Repair resin partial denture 
base - mandibular  
D5612 - Repair resin partial den ture 
base - maxillary  
D5621 - Repair cast partial framework - 
mandibular  
D5622 - Repair cast partial framework 
- maxillary  
D5630 - Repair or replace broken 
retentive/clasping materials - per tooth  
D5640 - Replace broken teeth - per 
tooth  
D5650 - Add tooth to existing partial 
denture  
D5660 - Add clasp to existing partial 
denture  
The following services are limited to 
rebasing performed more than 6 
months after the initial insertion with a 
frequency limitation of 1 time per 12 
months.  
 
D5710 - Rebase complete maxillary 
denture  
D5711 - Rebase complete mandibular 
denture  
D5720 - Rebase maxillary partial 
denture  
D5721 - Rebase mandibular partial 
denture  
D5725 - Rebase hybrid prosthesis  
D5730 - Reline complete maxillary 
denture (direct)  
D573 1 - Reline complete mandibular 
denture (direct)  
D5740 - Reline maxillary partial 
denture (direct)  
D5741 - Reline mandibular partial 
denture (direct)  
D5750 - Reline complete maxillary 
denture (indirect)  
D5751 - Reline complete mandibular 
denture (indirect)  
D5760 - Reline maxillary partial 
denture (indirect)  
D5761 - Reline mandibular partial 
denture (indirect)  
D5876 - Add metal substructure to 
acrylic full denture (per arch)  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  14  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D5765 - Soft liner for complete or 
partial removable denture - indirect  
D5850 - Tissue conditioning 
(maxillary)  
D5851 - Tissue conditioning 
(mandibular)  
D5863 - Overdenture - complete 
maxillary  
D5864 - Overdenture - partial 
maxillary  
D5865 - Overdenture - complete 
mandibular  
D5866 - Overdenture - partial 
mandibular  50%  50%  
Bridges (Fixed partial dentures) - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D6210 - Pontic - cast high noble metal  
D6211 - Pontic - cast predominately 
base metal  
D6212 - Pontic - cast noble metal  
D6214 - Pontic - titanium  and titanium 
alloys  
D6240 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
high noble metal  
D6241 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
predominately base metal  
D6242 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
noble metal  
D6243 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
titanium and titanium alloys  
D6245 - Pontic - porcelain/ceramic  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D6545 - Retainer - cast metal for resin 
bonded fixed prosthesis  
D6548 - Retainer - porcelain/ceramic 
for resin bonded fixed prosthesis  50%  50%  
The following services are limited to 1 
time ever y 60 months.  
 
D6740 - Retainer c rown - 
porcelain/ceramic  
D6750 - Retainer c rown - porcelain 
fused to high noble metal  
D6751 - Retainer c rown - porcelain 
fused to predominately base metal  
D6752 - Retainer c rown - porcelain 
fused to noble metal  
D6753 - Retai ner crown - porcelain 
fused to titanium and titanium alloys  50% 
 50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  15  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D6780 - Retainer c rown - 3/4 cast 
high noble metal  
D6781 - Retainer c rown - 3/4 cast 
predominately base metal  
D6782 - Retainer c rown - 3/4 cast 
noble metal  
D6783 - Retainer c rown - 3/4 
porcelain/ceramic  
D6784 - Retainer crown - 3/4 titanium 
and titanium alloys  
D6790 - Retainer  crown - full cast high 
noble metal  
D6791 - Retainer  crown - full cast 
predominately base metal  
D6792 - Retainer  crown - full cast 
noble metal  
The followi ng service is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D6930 - Re-cement or re -bond FPD  50%  50%  
The following service  is not subject to 
a frequency limit.  
 
D6980 - FPD repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure  50%  50%  
Oral Surgery - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7111 - Extraction, coronal remnants  
D7140 - Extraction, erupted tooth or 
exposed root  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7210 - Surgical removal of erupted 
tooth requiring removal of bone, 
sectioning of tooth, and including 
elevation of mucoperiosteal flap, if 
indicated  
D7220 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
soft tissue  
D7230 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
partially bony  
D7240 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
completely bony  
D7241 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
completely bony with unusual surgical 
complications  
D7250 - Surgical removal or residual 
tooth roots  
D7251 - Coronectomy - intentional 
partial tooth removal  
D7260 - Orontral fistula closure  50%  50%  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  16  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D7270 - Tooth reimplantation and/or 
stabilization of accidentally evulsed or 
displaced tooth  
D7272 - Tooth reimplantation 
(includes from one site to another)  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7280 - Surgical access exposure of 
an unerupted tooth  
D7285 - Incisional biopsy of oral 
tissue - hard 
D7286 - Incisional biopsy of oral 
tissue - soft 
D7290 - Surgical repositioning of 
teeth  50%  50%  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7310 - Alveoloplasty in conjunction 
with extractions - four or more teeth or 
tooth spaces, per quadrant  
D7311 - Alveoloplasty in conjunction 
with extraction - one to three teeth or 
tooth space s - per quadrant  
D7320 - Alveoloplasty not in 
conjunction with extractions - four or 
more teeth or tooth spaces, per 
quadrant  
D7321 - Alveoloplasty not in 
conjunction with extractions - one to 
three teeth or tooth space - per 
quadrant  
D7340 and D7350 - Vestibulopasty  50%  50%  
The following service s are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7410 - Excision of benign lesion up 
to 1.25 cm  
D7440 - Excision of malignant tumor - 
lesion up to 1.25 cm  
D7450 - Removal of benign 
odontogenic cyst or tumor - up to 
1.25cm  
D7451 - Removal of benign 
odontogenic cyst or tumor - greater 
than 1.25cm  
D7460 - Removal of benign 
nonodontogenic cyst or tumor - up to 
1.25cm  
D7461 - Removal of nonodontogenic 
cyst or tumor - lesion greater than 
1.25cm  
D7471 - Removal of lateral exostosis 
(maxilla or mandible)  
D7472 - Removal of torus palatinus  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  17  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D7473 - Removal of torus 
mandibularis  
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limit.  
 
D7510 - Incision and drainage of 
abscess , intraoral soft tissue  
D7520 - Incision and drainage of 
abscess - extraoral soft tissue  
D7550 - Partial ostectomy  
D7910 - Suture of recent small 
wounds up to 5 cm  
D7953 - Bone replacement graft for 
ridge preservation - per site  
D7960 – Frenulectomy  
D7961 - Buccal/labial frenectomy 
(frenulectomy)  
D7962 - Lingual frenectomy 
(frenulectomy)  
D7970 - Excision of hyperplastic 
tissue per arch  
D7971 - Excision of pericoronal 
gingiva  50%  50%  
Adjunctive Services - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following service is not subject to 
a frequency limit; however, it is 
covered as a separate benefit only if 
no other services (other than the 
exam and radiographs) were done on 
the same tooth during the visit.  
 
D9110 - Palliative (Emergency) 
treatment of dental pain - minor 
procedure  50%  50 %  
D9222 - Deep sedation/general 
anesthesia - first 15 minutes  
D9223 - Deep sedation/general 
anesthesia each 15 minutes 
increment  
D9230 - Inhalation of nitrous 
oxide/analgesia, anxiolysis  
D9239 - Intravenous moderate 
(conscious) sedation/anesthesia - first 
15 minutes  
D9243 - Intravenous moderate 
(conscious) sedation/analgesia - each 
15 minute increment  
D9248 - Non-intravenous conscious 
sedation  
D9610 - Therapeuti c parenteral drug 
single administration  50%  50%  
D9310 - Consultation (diagnostic 
service provided by a dentist or 
Physician other than the practitioner 
providing treatment)  50% 50%  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  18  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D9410 - House/extended facility call  
D9910 - application of desensitizing 
medicament  
The following is limited to 1 guard 
every 12 months.  
 
D9941 - Fabrication of athletic mouth 
guard  50% 50% 
D9944 - Occlusal guard - hard 
appliance, full arch  
D9945 - Occlusal guard - soft 
appliance, full arch  
D9946 - Occlusal guard - hard 
appliance, partial arch  
D9951 - Occlusal adjustment - limited  
D9952 - Occlusal adjustment - 
complete  50%  50%  
Implant Procedures - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
The following services are limited to 1 
time every 60 months.  
 
D6010 - Surgical placement of implant 
body: endosteal implant  
D6012 - Surgical placement of interim 
implant body  
D6040 - Surgical placement of 
eposteal implant  
D6050 - Surgical placement: 
transosteal implant  
D6055 - Connecting bar - implant 
supported or abutment supported  
D6056 - Prefabricated abutment - 
includes modification and placement  
D6057 - Custom fabricated abutment - 
includes placement  
D6058 - Abutment supported 
porcelai n/ ceramic crown  
D6059 - Abutment supported 
porcelain fused to metal crown (high 
noble metal)  
D6060 - Abutment supported 
porcelain fused to metal crown 
(predominately base metal)  
D6061 - Abutment supported 
porcelain fused to  metal crown (noble 
metal)  
D606 2 - Abutment supported cast 
metal crown (high noble metal)  
D6063 - Abutment supported cast 
metal crown (predominately base 
metal)  
D6064 - Abutment supported cast 
metal crown (noble metal)  
D6065 - Implant supported 
porcelain/ceramic crown  
D6066 - Implant su pported crown -
porcelain fused to high noble alloys  50%  50%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  19  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D6067 - Implant supported crown - 
high noble alloys  
D6068 - Abutment supported retainer 
for porcelain/ceramic FPD  
D6069 - Abutment supported retainer 
for porcelain fused to metal FPD (high 
noble metal)  
D6070 - Abutment supported retainer 
for porcelain fused to metal FPD 
(predominately base metal)  
D6071 - Abutment supported retainer 
for porcelain fused to metal FPD 
(noble metal)  
D6072 - Abutment supported retainer 
for cast metal FPD (high noble metal)  
D607 3 - Abutment supported retainer 
for cast metal FPD (predominately 
base metal)  
D6074 - Abutment supported retainer 
for cast metal FPD (noble metal)  
D6075 - Implant supported retainer for 
ceramic FPD  
D6076 - Implant supported retainer for 
FPD- porcelain fuse d to high noble 
alloys  
D6077 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - high noble alloys  
D6080 - Implant maintenance 
procedure  
D6081 - Scaling and debridement in 
the presence of inflammation or 
mucositis of a single implant, including 
cleaning of the implant surfaces, 
without flap entry and closure  
D6082 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to predominantly base 
alloys  
D6083 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to noble alloys  
D6084 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys  
D6086 - Implant supported crown - 
predominantly base alloys  
D6087 - Implant supported crown - 
noble alloys  
D6088 - Implant supported crown - 
titanium and titanium alloys  
D6090 - Repair implant supported 
prosthesis, by report  
D6091 - Replacement of replaceable 
part of semi -precision or precision 
attachment of implant/abutment 
supported prosthesis, per attachment  
D6095 - Repair implant abutment, by 
report  
D6096 - Remove broken implant 
retaining screw   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  20  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
D6097 - Abutment supported crown - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys  
D6098 - Implant supported retainer - 
porcelain fused to predominantly base 
alloys  
D6099 - Implant supported retainer for 
FPD - porcelain fused to noble alloys  
D6100 - Surgical removal of implant 
body  
D6101 - Debr idement peri -implant 
defect  
D6102 - Debridement and osseous 
contouring of a peri -implant defect  
D6103 - Bone graft for repair of peri -
implant defect  
D6104 - Bone graft at time of implant 
replacement  
D6118 - Implant/abutment supported 
interim fixed denture for edentulous 
arch - mandibular  
D6119 - Implant/abutment supported 
interim fixed denture for edentulous 
arch - maxillary  
D6120 - Implant supported retainer - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys  
D6121 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - predominantly base alloys  
D6122 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - noble alloys  
D6123 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - titanium and titanium 
alloys  
D6190 - Radiographic/surgical implant 
index, by report  
D6191 - Semi -precision abutment - 
placement  
D6192 - Semi -precision attachment - 
placement  
D6195 - Abutment supported retainer 
- porcelain fused to titanium and 
titanium alloys  
Orthodontics - (Subject to payment of the Dental Services Deductible.)  
Benefits for comprehensive orthodontic treatment, only in those instances that are related to an identifiable 
syndrome such as cleft lip and or palate, Crouzon’s Syndrome, Treacher -Collins Syndrome, Pierre -Robin 
Syndrome, hemi -facial atrophy, hemi -facial h ypertrophy; or other severe craniofacial deformities which result in a 
physically handicapping malocclusion. Benefits are not available for comprehensive orthodontic treatment for 
crowded dentitions (crooked teeth), excessive spacing between teeth, temporo mandibular joint (TMJ) conditions 
and/or having horizontal/vertical (overjet/overbite) discrepancies.  
 
Benefits will be paid in equal monthly installments over the course of the entire orthodontic treatment plan, 
starting on the date that the orthodontic b ands or appliances are first placed, or on the date a one -step 
orthodontic procedure is performed.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  21  Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts.  
What Are the Procedure Codes, 
Benefit Description and Frequency 
Limitations ? Network Benefits  
 Out-of-Network Benefits  
 
Services or supplies furnished by a Dental Provider in order to diagnose or correct misalignment of the teeth or 
the bite. Benefits are available only when the service or supply is related to any of the identifiable syndromes 
listed above.  
 
The following services are not subject 
to a frequency limitation.  
 
D8010 - Limited orthodontic treatment 
of the primary dentition  
D8020 - Limited orthodontic treatment 
of the transitional dentition  
D8030 - Limited orthodontic treatment 
of the adolescent dentition  
D8070 - Comprehensive orthodontic 
treatment of the transitional dentition  
D8080 - Comprehensive orthodontic 
treatment of the adolescent dentition  
D809 0 - Comprehensive orthodontic 
treatment of the adult dentition  
D8210 - Removable appliance 
therapy  
D8220 - Fixed appliance therapy  
D8660 - Pre-orthodontic treatment 
visit 
D8670 - Periodic orthodontic 
treatment visit  
D8680 - Orthodontic retention  
D8692 - Replacement of lost or 
broken retainer  
D8693 - Re-cement or re -bond fixed 
retainer  
D8694 - Repair of fixed retainers, 
includes reattachment  
D8695 - Removal of fixed orthodontic 
appliances for reasons other than 
completion of treatment  
D8696 - Repair of ort hodontic 
appliance - maxillary  
D8697 - Repair of orthodontic 
appliance - mandibular  
D8698 - Re-cement or re -bond fixed 
retainer - maxillary  
D8699 - Re-cement or re -bond fixed 
retainer - mandibular  
D8701 - Repair of fixed retainer, 
includes reattachment - maxillary  
D8702 - Repair of fixed retainer, 
includes reattachment - mandibular  
D8703 - Replacement of lost or 
broken retainer - maxillary  
D8704 - Replacement of lost or 
broken retainer - mandibular  50%  50% 
 
The following Procedure Codes are covered under the medical portion of the Policy:  
 
D0290 – Posterior -anterior or lateral skull and facial bone survey film  
D0320 – Temporomandibular joint arthrogram, including injection   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  22  D0321 – Other temporomandibular joint films, by report  
D5992 – Adjust maxillof acial prosthetic appliance, by report  
D5993 – Maintenance and cleaning of a maxillofacial prosthesis (extra or intraoral) other than required adjustments  
 
Section 3: Pediatric Dental Exclusions  
 
Except as may be specifically provided under Section 2: Benef its for Covered Dental Services , benefits are not provided for 
the following:  
1. Any Dental Procedure performed solely for cosmetic/aesthetic reasons. (Cosmetic procedures are those 
procedures that improve physical appearance.)  
2. Procedures that are considered to be Experimental Services, except as specifically provided in the P olicy for 
Approved Clinical Trials.  
3. Charges for not keeping  a scheduled appointment without giving the dental office 24 hours notice.  
4. Expenses for Dental Procedures begun prior to the Insured Person becoming enrolled for coverage provided 
through the Policy.  
5. Dental Services otherwise covered under the Policy, but rendered after the date individual coverage under the 
Policy terminates, including Dental Services for dental conditions aris ing prior to the date individual coverage under 
the Policy terminates , except as specifically provided in Section 6:  Extension of Benefits after Termination . 
6. Services rendered by a provider with the same legal residence as the Insured Person or who is a member of the 
Insured Person’s family, including spouse, brother, sister, parent or child.  
7. Foreign Services are not covered unless required for a Dental Emergency.  
 
Section 4: Claims for Pediatric Dental Services  
 
When obtaining Dental Services from a n out-of-Network Dental Provider, the Insured Person may be required to pay all 
billed charges directly to the Dental Provider. The Insured Person may then seek payment  from the Company. The Insured 
Person must provide the Company with all of the information id entified below.  
 
Payment  for Dental Services  
The Insured Person is responsible for sending a request for payment  to the Company, on a form provided by or satisfactory 
to the Company.  
 
Claim Forms.  It is not necessary to include a claim form with the proof of loss. However, the proof must include all of the 
following information  when applicable to the service provided : 
• Insured Person's name and address.  
• Insured Person's identification number.  
• The name and address of the provider of the service(s).  
• A diagnosi s from the Dental Provider including a complete dental chart showing extractions, fillings or other dental 
services rendered before the charge was incurred for the claim.  
• Radiographs, lab or hospital reports.  
• Casts, molds or study models.  
• Itemized bill whi ch includes the CPT or ADA codes or description of each charge.  
• The date the dental disease began.  
• A statement indicating that the Insured Person is or is not enrolled for coverage under any other health or dental 
insurance plan or program. If enrolled for  other coverage, The Insured Person must include the name of the other 
carrier(s).  
 
To file a claim, submit the above information to the Company at the following address:  
UnitedHealthcare Dental  
ATTN:  Claims Unit  
P. O. Box 30567  
Salt Lake City, UT  84130 -0567  
 
If the Insured Person would like to use a claim form, call Customer Service at the number listed on the Insured’s Dental ID 
Card. If the Insured Person does not receive the claim form within 15 calendar days of the request, the proof of loss ma y 
be submitted with the information stated above.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  23   
Section 5: Defined Terms for Pediatric Dental Services  
 
The following definitions are in addition to those listed in the Definitions section of the Certificate of Coverage:  
 
Allowed Dental Amounts  - Allowed Dental Amounts for Covered Dental Services, incurred while the Policy is in effect, are 
determined as stated below:  
• For Network Benefits, when Covered Dental Services are received from Network Dental Providers, Allowed Dental 
Amounts are the Com pany’s contracted fee(s) for Covered Dental Services with that provider.  
• For Out-of-Network Benefits, when Covered Dental Services are received from out-of-Network Dental Providers, 
Allowed Dental Amounts are the Usual and Customary Fees, as defined below.  
 
Covered Dental Service  - a Dental Service or Dental Procedure for which benefits are provided under this  provision . 
 
Dental Emergency  - a dental condition or symptom resulting from dental disease which arises suddenly and, in the 
judgment of a reasonable person, requires immediate care and treatment, and such treatment is sought or received within 
24 hours of onset.  
 
Dental Provider  - any dentist or dental practitioner who is duly licensed and qualified under the law of jurisdiction in which 
treatment is received to render Dental Services, perform dental surgery or administer anesthetics for dental surgery.  
 
Dental Service or Dental Proc edures  - dental care or treatment provided by a Dental Provider to the Insured Person while 
the Policy is in effect, provided such care or treatment is a generally accepted form of care or treatment according to 
prevailing standards of dental practice.  
 
Dental Services Deductible  - the amount the Insured Person must incur for Covered Dental Services in a Policy Year 
before  becoming eligible for dental  benefits . 
 
Experimental Service s - medical, dental, surgical, diagnostic, psychiatric, substance misuse , or other health care services, 
technologies, supplies, treatments, procedures, drug therapies or devices that  are not recognized as efficacious as that 
term is defined in the edition of the Institute of Medicine Report on Assessing Medical Technologies tha t is current when 
the care rendered.  Experimental services do not include Approved Clinical Trials as specifically provided for in the Policy.  
 
Foreign Services  - services provided outside the U.S. and U.S. Territories.  
 
Network - a group of Dental Providers who are subject to a participation agreement in effect with the Company, directly or 
through another entity, to provide Dental Services to Insured Persons.  The participation status of providers will change 
from time to time.  
Network Benefits  - benefits available for Covered Dental Services when provided by a Dental Provider who is a Network 
Dentist.  
 
Out-of-Network Benefits  - benefits available for Covered Dental Services obtained from out-of-Network Dentists.  
 
Usual and Customary Fee  - Usual and  Customary Fees are calculated by the Company based on available data resources 
of competitive fees in that geographic area.  
 
Usual and Customary Fees must not exceed the fees that the provider would charge any similarly situated payor for the 
same servic es. The Usual and Customary Fee will never be less than the Allowed Dental Amount.  
 
Usual and Customary Fees are determined solely in accordance with the Company’s reimbursement policy guidelines. The 
Company’s reimbursement policy guidelines are developed  by the Company, in its discretion, following evaluation and 
validation of all provider billings in accordance with one or more of the following methodologies:  
• As indicated in the most recent edition of the Current Procedural Terminology (publication of th e American Dental 
Association).  
• As reported by generally recognized professionals or publications.  
• As utilized for Medicare.  
• As determined by medical or dental staff and outside medical or dental consultants.  
• Pursuant to other appropriate source or determi nation that the Company accepts.  
 
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  24  Section 6: Extension of Benefits After Termination  
If an Insured begins a course of dental treatment, except orthodontic treatment, before the Termination Date and requires 
two or more visits on separate days to a dentist ’s office, Covered Medical Expenses for such course of treatment will 
continue to be paid but not to exceed 12 months after the Termination Date.  
 
If an Insured is receiving orthodontic treatment before the Termination Date, Covered Medical Expenses for such orthodontic 
treatment will be covered in one of the following methods:  
• For 60 days after the date coverage terminates when the orthodontic provider has agreed to or is receiving monthly 
payments.  
• Until the later of 60 days after the date coverage terminates or the end of the quarter in progress, if the orthodontist 
has agreed to accept or is receiving payments on a quarterly basis.  
 
Section 20: Pediatric Vision Services Benefit  
Benefits are provided for Vision Care Services, as described below, for Insured Persons under the age of  19. Benefits 
terminate on the earlier of: 1) last day of the month the Insured Person reaches the age of 19; or 2) the date the Insured 
Person’s coverage under the Policy terminates . 
 
Section 1: Benefit s for Pediatric Vision Care Services  
 
Benefits are available for pediatric Vision Care Services from a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network  or an out-of-Network 
Vision Care Provider. To find a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network  Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person may call  the 
provider locator service at 1-800-839-3242 . The Insured Person may also access a listing of UnitedHealthcare Vision 
Network  Vision Care Providers on the Internet at www.myuhcvision.com . 
 
When Vision Care Services are obtained fr om a n out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person may be required 
to pay all billed charges at the time of service. The Insured Person may then seek reimbursement from the Company as 
described under Section 3: Claims for Vision Care Services . Reimbursement will be limited to the amounts stated below.  
When obtaining these Vision Care Services from a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network  Vision Care Provider, the Insured 
Person may be required to pay any Copayments at the time of service.  
 
Network Benef its: 
 
Benefits for Vision Care Services are determined based on the negotiated contract fee between the Company and the Vision 
Care Provider. The Company’s negotiated rate with the Vision Care Provider is ordinarily lower than the Vision Care 
Provider's billed charge.  
 
Out-of-Network Benefits:  
 
Benefits for Vision Care Services from out-of-Network providers are determined as a percentage of the provider's billed 
charge.  However, fees from a n out-of-Network provider  will never be less than the n egotiated contract fee for that same 
Vision Care Service if that Vision Care Service has been received from a Network provider in the same geographic area.  
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum  - any amount the Insured Person pays in Coinsurance for Vision Care Services applies to the 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy  Schedule of Benefits.  Any amount the Insured Person pays in Copayments for 
Vision Care Services applies to the Out -of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits.  
 
Policy Deduc tible 
 
Benefits for pediatric Vision Care Services provided are not  subject to any Policy Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule 
of Benefits.  Any amount the Insured Person pays in Copayments for Vision Care Services does not apply to the Policy 
Deductibl e stated in the Policy  Schedule of Benefits . 
 
What Are the Benefit Description s? 
Benefits  
 
When benefit limits apply, the limit stated refers to any combination of Network Benefits and out-of-Network Benefits unless 
otherwise specifically stated.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  25  Benefits do not include applicable sales tax charged on Vision Care Services.  
 
Benefit limits are c alculated on a Policy Year  basis unless otherwise specifically stated.  
 
Benefits for medical or surgical treatment for eye disease which requires the services of a Physician are not covered under 
the Pediatric Visi on Care Services but under the P olicy plan  benefits.  
 
Frequency of Service Limits  
 
Benefits are provided for the Vision Care Services described below, subject to Frequency of Service  limits and Copayments 
and Coinsurance stated under each Vision Care Service in the Schedule of Benefits  below.  
 
Routine Vision Examination  
 
A routine vision examination of the eyes and according to the standards of care in the area where  the Insured Person 
reside s, including  but not limited to : 
• A patient  history that includes reason s for exam, patient medical/eye history, and current medications.  
• Visual acuity  with each eye and both eyes , far and near, with and without glasses or contact lenses (for example, 
20/20 and 20/40).  
• Cover test at 20 feet and 16 inches (checks  how the eyes work together as a team ). 
• Ocular motility (how  the eyes move ) near point convergence (how well eyes move together for near vision tasks, 
such  as reading), and depth perception  (3D vision) . 
• Pupil  reaction to light and focusing . 
• Exam of the eye lids, lashes, and outside of the eye . 
• Retinoscopy (when  needed ) helps to determine the starting point of the refraction which determines the lens power 
of the glasses . 
• Phorometry/Binocular testing – far and near: how well eyes work as a team.  
• Tests of accommodation  – how well the Insured Person sees up close (for exa mple, reading).  
• Tonometry, when indicated: test pressure in eye (glaucoma check).  
• Ophthalmoscopic examination of the inside of the eye. 
• Visual field  testing .  
• Color vision testing.  
• Diagnosis/prognosis.  
• Specific recommendations.  
• Dilation  when professional i ndicated . 
 
Post exam procedures will be performed only when materials are required.  
 
Or, in lieu of a complete exam, Retinoscopy (when applicable) - objective refraction to determine lens power of corrective 
lenses and subjective refraction to determine le ns power of corrective lenses.  
 
Eyeglass Lenses  
 
Lenses that are placed in eyeglass frames and worn on the face to correct visual acuity limitations.  
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose only one of either eyeglasses ( Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames ) or 
Contact Lenses . If the Insured Person chooses  more than one of these Vision Care Services, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service.  
 
If the Insured Person purchases Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames  at the same time from the same UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network  Vision Care Provider, only one Copayment will apply to those Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames  
together.  
 
Eyeglass Frames  
 
A structure that contains eyeglass lenses, holding the lenses in fr ont of the eyes and supported by the bridge of the nose.  
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose  only one of either eyeglasses ( Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames ) or 
Contact Lenses . If the Insured Person chooses  more than one of these Vision Care Se rvices, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  26   
If the Insured Person purchases Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames  at the same time from the same UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network  Vision Care Provider, only one Copayment will apply to those Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames  
together.  
 
Contact Lenses  
 
Lenses worn on the surface of the eye to correct visual acuity limitations.  
 
Benefits include the fitting/evaluation fees , contact  lenses, and follow -up care . 
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose  only one of either eyeglasses ( Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames ) or 
Contact Lenses . If the Insured Person chooses  more than one of these Vision Care Services, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service.  
 
Necessary Contact Lenses  
 
Benefits are available when a Vision Care Provider has determined a need for and has prescribed the contact lens. Such 
determination will be made by the Vision Care Provider and not by the Company.  
 
Contact lenses are necessary if the Insured Person has any of the following:  
• Keratoconus.  
• Anisometropia.  
• Irregular corneal/astigmatism.  
• Aphakia.  
• Facial deformity.  
• Corneal deformity.  
• Pathological myopia . 
• Aniseikonia . 
• Aniridia . 
• Post-traumatic disorders . 
 
Low Vision  
 
Benefits are available to Insured Persons who have severe visual problems that cannot be corrected with regular lenses 
and only when a Vision Care Provider has determined a need for and has prescribed the service. Suc h determination will 
be made by the Vision Care Provider and not by the Company.  
 
Benefits include:  
• Low vision testing: Complete low vision analysis and diagnosis which includes:  
•  A comprehensive examination of visual functions.  
• The prescription of correct ive eyewear or vision aids where indicated.  
• Any related follow -up care.  
• Low vision therapy: Subsequent low vision therapy if prescribed.  
• Prescribed optical devices, such as high -power spectacles, magnifiers, and telescopes.  
 
Schedule of Benefits  
 
Vision C are Service  What is the Frequency of 
Service ? Network Benefit  Out-of-Network 
Benefit  
Routine Vision Examination 
or Refraction only in lieu of 
a complete exam.  Once per year.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 20.  80% 
Eyeglass Lenses  Once per year.    
• Single Vision   100% after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%  
• Bifocal   100%  after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  27  Vision C are Service  What is the Frequency of 
Service ? Network Benefit  Out-of-Network 
Benefit  
• Trifocal   100% after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%  
• Lenticular   100% after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%  
Lens Extras  Once per year.    
• Polycarbonate lenses   100%  100%  
• Standard scratch -
resistant coating   100%  100%  
Eyeglass Frames  Once per year.    
• Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost up to $130.   100%  80% 
• Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $130 - 
$160.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 15.  80%  
• Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $160 - 
$200.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 30.  80%  
• Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $200 - 
$250.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 50.  80%  
• Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost greater than 
$250.   60% 50% 
Contact Lenses Fitting & 
Evaluation  Once per year.  100%  80%  
Contact Lenses     
• Covered Contact Lens 
Selection  Limited to a 12 month supply.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%  
• Necessary Contact 
Lenses  Limited to a 12 month supply.  100% after a 
Copayment of $ 40.  80%  
Low Vision Care Services  
Note that benefits for these 
services will be paid as 
reimbursements.  When 
obtaining these Vision Care 
Services, the Insured Person 
will be required to pay all 
billed charges at the time of 
service.  The Insured Person 
may then obtain 
reimbursement from the 
Company.  Reimbursement 
will be limited to the amounts 
stated.  Comprehensive low vision 
exam once every 5 years, 
including 4 follow -up visits in 
any 5 -year period and 
prescribed optical de vices, 
such as high -powered 
spectacles, magnifiers and 
telescopes.    
• Low vision testing   100%  80% 
• Low vision therapy   100%  80% 
 
Section 2: Pediatric Vision Exclusions  
 
Except as may be specifically provided under Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services , benefits are not 
provided for the following:  
1. Non-prescription items (e.g. Plano lenses).  
2. Replacement of lenses and/or frames that have been lost or stolen . 
3. Optional Lens Extras not listed in Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services . 
4. Missed appointment charges.  
5. Services  and materials resulting from the Insured Person’s failure to comply with professionally prescribed 
treatment .  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) CERT  28   
 
Section 3: Clai ms for Pediatric Vision Care Services  
 
When obtaining Vision Care Services from a n out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person may be required to 
pay all billed charges directly to the Vision Care Provider. The Insured Person may then seek paym ent from the Company. 
Information about claim timelines and responsibilities in the General Provisions section in the Certificate of Coverage appli es 
to Vision Care Services provided, except that when the Insured Person submits a Vision Services claim, the Insured Person 
must provide the Company with all of the information identified below.  
 
Payment for Vision Care Services  
To file a claim for reimbursement for Vision Care Services provided  by an out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, or for Vision 
Care Services covered as reimbursements (whether or not rendered by a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network  Vision Care 
Provider or a n out-of-Network Vision Care Provider), the Insured Person must provide all of the following information at the 
address specified  below:  
• Insured Person’s itemized receipts.  
• Insured Person's name.  
• Insured Person's identification number from the ID card.  
• Insured Person's date of birth.  
 
Submit the above information to the Company:  
By mail:  
Claims Department  
P.O. Box 30978  
Salt Lake City, UT 84130  
 
By facsimile (fax):  
248-733-6060  
 
Section 4: Defined Terms for Pediatric Vision Care Services  
 
The following definitions are in addition to those listed in Definitions section of the Certificate of Coverage:  
 
Covered Contact Lens Selection  - a selection of available contact lenses that may be obtained from a UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network  Vision Care Provider on a covered -in-full basis, subject to payment of any applicable Copayment.  Out-of-
Network benefits are covere d as specified in the Schedule of Benefits  
 
UnitedHealthcare Vision Network  - any optometrist, ophthalmologist, optician or other person designated by the Company 
who provides Vision Care Services for which benefits are available under the Policy.  
 
Vision Care Provider  - any optometrist, ophthalmologist, optician or other person who may lawfully provide Vision Care 
Services.  
 
Vision Care Service  - any service or item listed in Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services . 
 
Section 5:  Extension of Benefits after Termination  
 
Extension of Benefits after Termination: The coverage provided under this benefit ceases on the Termination Date. 
However, if the Insured has order ed glasses or contact lenses before the Termination Date while the I nsured was covered 
under th e Policy, benefits will be paid for the glasses or contact lenses provided the Insured receives the glasses or contact 
lenses within 30 days after the date of the order.  
 
 UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company  
Administrative Office Address: P.O. Box 809025  
Dallas, TX 75380 -9025  
 
COL -17-MD (PY23) SOB PPO   1 Schedule of Benefits   
University of Maryland  
2023 -2071 -91 
METALLIC LEVEL – PLATINUM  WITH ACTUARIAL VALUE OF 91.420 % 
Injury and Sickness Benefits  
 
No Overall Maximum Dollar Limit (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year)  
 
Deductible Preferred Provider   $250 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year)  
Deductible Preferred Provider   $500 (For all Insureds in a Family, Per Policy Year)  
Deductible Out -of-Network  Provider   $500 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year)  
Deductible Out -of-Network  Provider  $600 (For all Insureds in a Family, Per Poli cy Year)  
Coinsurance Preferred Provider   80%, except as noted below  
Coinsurance Out -of-Network  Provider   60%, except as noted below  
Out-of-Pocket Maximum Preferred Provider   $1,500  (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year)  
Out-of-Pocket Maximum  Preferred Provider  $3,000  (For all Insureds in a Family, Per Policy Year)  
Out-of-Pocket Maximum Out -of-Network  Provider   $3,500  (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year)  
Out-of-Pocket Maximum Out -of-Network  Provider   $5,000  (For all Insureds in a Family, Per  Policy Year)  
 
The Policy provides benefits for the Covered Medical Expenses incurred by an Insured Pe rson for loss due to a covered 
Injury or Sickness.  
 
The Preferred Provider for this plan is UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus.  
 
Preferred Provider Benefits  apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by a Preferred Provider.   
 
Out-of-Network Provider Benefits  apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by an Out -of-Network Provider.  
Refer to the  Preferred Provider and Out -of-Network Provider Information  section of the Certificate for information on 
reimbursement for Emergency Services provided by an O ut-of-Network Provider, Covered Medical Expenses provided at 
certain Preferred Provider facilities by an Out -of-Network Physician, and Air Ambulance transport provided by an Out -of-
Network Provider.  
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum:  After the Out -of-Pocket Maximum h as been satisfied, Covered Medical Expenses will be paid at 
100% for the remainder of the Policy Year subject to any benefit maximums or limits that may apply . Separate Out -of-Pocket 
Maximums apply to Preferred Provider and Out -of-Network Provider Benefits . Any applicable Coinsurance, Copays, or 
Deductibles will be applied to the Out -of-Pocket Maximum.  Services that are not Covered Medical Expenses and the 
amount benefits are reduced for failing to comply with Policy provisions or requirements do not count  toward meeting the 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum. Even when the Out -of-Pocket Maximum has been satisfied, the Insured Person will still be 
responsible for Out -of-Network Copays.  
 
University Health Center Benefits:  Benefits will be paid as scheduled below for Cove red Medical Expenses incurred when 
treatment is rendered at the University Health Center for the following services: e.g., any services listed in the schedule o f 
benefits. Labs referred by the UHC to Quest/LabCo rp will be paid at 100%. Policy Exclusions and Limitations do not apply.  
 
Out-of-Country Claims:  Covered Medical Expenses incurred outside the United States will be paid at the Out -of-Network 
Provider Benefit level.  
 
Benefits are calculated on a Policy Year basis unless otherwise specifically stated. When benefit limits apply, benefits will  
be paid up to the maximum benefit for each service as scheduled below. All benefit maximums are combined Preferred 
Provider and Out -of-Network Provider unless otherwise specifically stated. Please refer to the Medical Expense Benefits 
section of the Certificate of Coverage for a description of the Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are available. 
Covered Medical Expenses include:  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) SOB PPO   2   
 
Inpatient  University Health 
Center (UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
Room and Board Expense  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Intensive Care  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Hospital Miscellaneous 
Expenses  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Routine Newborn Care  
See Benefits for Maternity 
Expenses  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  
 Paid as any other Sickness  
 
Surgery  
If two or more procedures are 
performed through the same 
incision or in immediate 
succession at the same 
operative session, the maximum 
amount paid will not exceed 
50% of the second procedure 
and 50% of all subsequent 
procedures.  
 
(Benefits include surgical 
treatment of Morbid Obesity.  
See Benefits for Morbid 
Obesity.)  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Assistant Surgeon Fees  
If two or more procedures are 
performed through the same 
incision or in immediate 
succession at the same 
operative session, the maximum 
amount paid will not exceed 
50% of the second procedure 
and 50% of all subsequent 
procedures.  Not available at UHC  Allow ed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Anesthetist Services  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Registered Nurse's Services  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Physician's Visits  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Pre-admission Testing  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
 
Outpatient  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
Surgery  
If two or more procedures are 
performed through the same 
incision or in immediate 
succession at the same 
operative session, the maximum 
amount paid will not exceed 
50% of the second procedure 
and 50% of all subsequent 
procedures.  
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) SOB PPO   3 Outpatient  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
(Benefits include surgica l 
treatment of Morbid Obesity. 
See Benefits for Morbid 
Obesity.)  
Day Surgery Miscellaneous  
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Assistant Surgeon Fees  
If two or more procedures are 
performed through the same 
incision or in immediate 
succession at the same 
operative session, the maximum 
amount paid will not exceed 
50% of the second procedure 
and 50% of all subsequent 
procedures.  100%  
not subject to Deduct ible 
 Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Anesthetist Services  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Physician's Visits   
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Chiropractic Services  
 
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Habilitative Services  
 
See also Benefits for Habilitative 
Services for Children .  100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Rehabilitative Services  
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Medical Emergency Expenses  
The Copay will be waived if 
admitted to the Hospital.  
 
The Out-of-Network Provider 
cost sharing will be the same as 
the Preferred Provider  cost-
sharing.  See Out -of-Network 
Emergency Services on page 28 
of the Certificate . 100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 $100 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  $100 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Diagnostic X -ray Services  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Radiation Therapy  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Laboratory Procedures  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Tests & Procedures  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Injections  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Chemotherapy  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Prescription Drugs  
 
*See UHCP Prescription Drug 
Benefit Endorsement for 
additional information.   
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 Prescription Drugs f rom 
a Retail or Mail Order 
UnitedHealthcare 
Pharmacy (UH CP),  
$20 Copay per 
prescription Tier 1  $20 Copay per prescription 
generic drug  
$40 Copay per prescription 
brand -name drug  
100% of  billed charge   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) SOB PPO   4 Outpatient  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
The Insured Person’s Copay or 
Coinsurance will not exceed 
$150 for up to a 30 -day supply 
for a Specialty Prescription Drug 
Product dispensed at a Network 
Pharmacy.  
 
In certain circumstances, a pro -
rated daily Copayment or 
Coinsurance amount for a 
partial supply of a Prescription 
Drug Product will be available 
when dispensed by a Network  
Pharmacy  
 
When a Prescription Drug is 
classified as a Maintenance 
Medication according to 
Maryland law and as written by 
the Physician.  Up to a 
consecutive 31 -day supply for a 
new prescription or a change in 
prescription of a Prescription 
Drug and therea fter, up to a 
consecutive 90 -day supply of a 
Prescription Drug subject to a 
Copay per prescription at 2.5 
times the Copay for a 31 -day 
supply.  The applicable Copay 
or Coinsurance will never be 
greater than the cost of the 
Prescription Drug.  
 
An Insured Pe rson’s Copay or 
Coinsurance will not exceed the 
retail price of the Prescription 
Drug Product.  
 
The Insured Person’s Copay or 
Coinsurance will not exceed 
$150 for up to a 30 -day supply 
for Prescription Drug Products 
prescribed to treat Diabetes, 
HIV and AI DS. 
 
For insulin drugs, the total 
amount of Copayments or 
Coinsurance shall not exceed 
$30 for an individual prescription 
of up to a 30 -day supply.  $40 Copay per 
prescription Tier 2  
$60 Copay per 
prescription Tier 3  
up to a 31 -day supply 
per prescription  
not subject to Deductible  
 
When Specialty 
Prescription Drugs are 
dispensed at a Non -
Preferred Specialty 
Network Pharmacy, the 
Insured is required to 
pay 2 times the retail  
Copay (up to 50% of the 
Prescription Drug 
Charge) . 
 
 up to a 31 -day supply per 
prescription  
not subject to Deductible  
 
 
 
Other  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
Ambulance Services  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Durable Medical Equipment  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) SOB PPO   5 Other  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
Consultant Physician Fees  100%  
not subject to Deductible  $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Dental Treatment  
Benefits paid on Injury to Sound, 
Natural Teeth only.  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Dental Treatment   
Benefits paid for removal of 
impacted wisdom teeth only.  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Mental Illness and Substance 
Use Disorder Treatment  Inpatient : 
Not available at SHC  
Outpatient office visits : 
100%  
not subject to  Deductible  
All other outpatient 
services, except 
Medical Emergency 
Expenses and 
Prescription Drugs : 
100%  
not subject to  Deductible  Inpatient:   
Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Outpatient office visits:  
$25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
All other outpatient 
services, except 
Medical Emergency 
Expenses and 
Prescription Drugs : 
Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Inpatient:  
Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Outpatient office visits:  
80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
All other outpatient 
services, except Medical 
Emergency Expenses  
and Prescription Drugs:  
Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Maternity  
See Benefits for Maternity 
Expenses  
Home visits will not be subject to 
a Copay, Coinsurance or 
Deductible.  Paid as any other 
Sickness  
 Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Complications of Pregnancy  Not available at UHC   Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Abortion  Care Services  
 Not available at UHC  100% of Allowed Amount  100% of Allowed Amount  
Preventive Care Services  
No Deductible or Copays will be 
applied to Preventive Care 
Services.  
 
Please visit 
https://www.healthcare.gov/prev
entive -care-benefits/ for a 
complete list of services 
provided for specific age and 
risk groups.  100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 100% of Allowed Amount  80% of Allowed Amount  
 
Reconstructive Breast 
Surgery Following 
Mastectomy  
See Benefits for Reconstructive 
Breast Surgery Following a 
Mastectomy  Not available at UHC  100% of Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Diabetes Services  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Home Health Care  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Hospice Care  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Inpatient Rehabilitation 
Facility  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) SOB PPO   6 Other  University Health Center 
(UHC) Benefits  Preferred Provider  
Benefits  Out-of-Network Provider  
Benefits  
Skilled Nursing Facility  
 Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Urgent Care Center  100%  
not subject to Deductible  $50 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  $50 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Hospital Outpatient Facility or 
Clinic  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Approved Clinical Trials  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Transplantation Services  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Pediatric Dental and Vision 
Services  Not available at UHC  See Pediatric Dental and 
Vision Services benefits  See Pediatric Dental and 
Vision Services benefits  
Allergy Treatment  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Cardiac Rehabilitation  
 100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Case Management Approved 
Services  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Family Planning  
See Family Planning Medical 
Expense Benefit description for 
additional cost share details.  Paid as any other 
Sickness  
 Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Hearing Aids  100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Infertility Services  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Medical Foods  100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Nutritional Services  100%  
not subject to Deductible  
 Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Patient Centered Medical Care 
Coordination  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Pulmonary Rehabilitation  100%  
not subject to Deductible  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Wellness Program Benefits  Not available at UHC  Up to $200 per 6 month 
period  
not subject to Deductible  Up to $200 per 6 month 
period  
not subject to Deductible  
Wigs  Not available at UHC  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  Allowed Amount  
after Deductible  
Second Surgical Opinion  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Acupuncture  Not available at UHC  $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
TMJ and CMJ Treatment  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Routine Hearing Exams  
One exam per Policy Year  Not available at UHC  $25 Copay per visit  
100% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  80% of Allowed Amount  
not subject to Deductible  
Podiatric Treatment  
Non-routine foot care treatment  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
Sexual Reassignment Surgery  Not available at UHC  Paid as any other 
Sickness  Paid as any other Sickness  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   1 
 UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT  
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
of the terms and condition s of the Policy not inconsistent therewith.  
 
 
 
President   
 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amended as follows:  
 
UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy (UHCP) and Out -of-Network Pharmacy Prescription Drug Benefits  
 
When Are Benefits  Available  for Prescription Drug Products ? 
 
Benefits are available for Prescription Drug Products when dispensed at a UHCP Network Pharmacy as specified in the 
Policy Schedule of Benefits subject to all terms of the Policy and the provisions, definitions and exclusions specified in th is 
endorsement.   
 
Benefits for Prescription Drug Products are subject to supply limits and Copayments and/or Coinsurance or other payments 
that vary depending on which of the tiers of the Prescription Drug List the Prescription Drug Product is placed.  Refer to th e 
Polic y Schedule of Benefits for applicable supply limits and Copayments and/or Coinsurance requirements.  
 
Benefit for Prescription Drug Products are available when the Prescription Drug Product meets the definition of a Covered 
Medical Expense.  
 
The Insured mus t either show their ID card to the Network Pharmacy when the prescription is filled or provide the Network 
Pharmacy with identifying information that can be verified by the Company during regular business hours.  If the Insured 
does not show their ID card to the Network Pharmacy or provide verifiable information, they will need to pay for the 
Prescription Drug at the pharmacy.  
 
The Insured may then submit a reimbursement form along with the paid receipts in order to be reimbursed.  Insureds may 
obtain reimb ursement forms by visiting www.uhcsr.com and logging in to their online account or by calling Customer Service  
at 1-855-828-7716.  
 
Information on Network Pharmacies is available at www.uhcsr.com or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716 . 
 
When prescriptions are filled at pharmacies outside a Network Pharmacy, the Insured must pay for the Prescription Drugs 
out of pocket and submit the receipts for reimbursement as described in the How to File a Claim for Injury and Sick ness 
Benefits section in the Certificate of Coverage.  
 
NETWORK PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS  
Copayment and/or Coinsurance Amount  
 
For Prescription Drug Products at a retail Network Pharmacy, Insured Persons are responsible for paying the lowest of:  
• The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance.  
• The Network Pharmacy’s Usual and Customary Fee for the Prescription Drug Product.  
• The Prescription Drug Charge for that Prescription Drug Product.  
  
 
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   2 
  
For Prescription Drug Products from a mail order Network Pharmacy , Insured Persons are responsible for paying the lower 
of: 
• The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance; or  
• The Prescription Drug Charge for that Prescription Drug Product.  
 
The Insured Person is not responsible for paying a Copayment and/or Coinsurance for PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive 
Care Medications.  
 
The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance will never be greater than the retail or mail order cost of the Prescription 
Drug.  
 
How Do Supply Limits  Apply?   
 
Benefits for Prescription Drug  Products are subject to supply limits as written by the Physician and the supply limits that are 
stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits, unless adjusted based on the drug manufacturer’s packaging size. For a single 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance, the Ins ured may receive a Prescription Drug Product up to the stated supply limit.  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is classified as a Maintenance Medication according to Maryland law and as written by 
the Physician, the following supply limits apply:  
• Up to a c onsecutive 31 -day supply for a new prescription or a change in prescription of a Prescription Drug Product; 
and 
• Thereafter, up to a consecutive 90 -day supply of a Prescription Drug Product subject to a Copayment up to 2.5 
times the Copayment and/or Coinsur ance for a 31 -day supply.  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is packaged or designed to deliver in a manner that provides more than a consecutive 
31-day supply, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed, however , this 
does not apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Pharmaceutical Products or a drug prescribed to treat diabetes, HIV, or AIDS 
that provide one dose that provides treatment for more than 30 - days.  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is dispensed from a ma il order Network Pharmacy, the Prescription Drug Product is 
subject to the supply limit stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits, unless adjusted based on the drug manufacturer’s 
packaging size, or based on supply limits.  
 
Note: Some products are subject to additional supply limits based on criteria that the Company has developed.  Supply 
limits are subject, from time to time, to the Company’s review and change. This may limit the amount dispensed per 
Prescription Order or Refill and/or the amount dispensed per month's supply or may require that a minimum amount be 
dispensed.  
 
The Insured may find out whether a Prescription Drug Product has a supply limit  for dispensing by contacting the Company 
at www.uhcsr.com or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716.  
 
Coverage for prescription eye drops will be provided in accordance with guidance for early refills of topical ophthalmic 
products provided to Medicare Part D plan sponsors by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and when:  
• The prescr ibing Physician indicates on the original prescription that additional quantities of the prescription eye 
drops are needed.  
• The refill requested by the Insured Person does not exceed the number of additional quantities indicated on the 
original prescriptio n by the prescribing Physician.  
• The prescription eye drops prescribed by the Physician are a covered benefit under the Policy.  
 
Partial Supply of a Prescription Drug Product  
 
The Company will allow and apply a pro -rated daily Copayment or Coinsurance amount for a partial supply of a Prescription 
Drug Product that is dispensed by a Network Pharmacy if:  
• The prescriber or the pharmacist determines dispensing a partial supply of a Prescription Drug Product to be in the 
Insured’s best interest.  
• The Prescription Drug Product is anticipated to be required for more than 3 months.  
• The Insured Person requests or agrees to a partial supply for the purposes of synchronizing the dispensing of the 
Insured’s Prescription Drug Products.  
• The Prescription Dru g Product is not a Schedule II controlled dangerous substance.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   3 
 • The supply and dispensing of the Prescription Drug Product meets all notification requirements specific to the 
Prescription Drug Product at the time of the synchronized dispensing.  
 
What Happen s When a Brand -name Drug Becomes Available as a Generic ? 
 
If a Generic becomes available for a Brand -name Prescription Drug Product, the tier placement of the Brand -name 
Prescription Drug may change. Therefore, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance may change o r the Insured will no longer 
have benefits for that particular Brand -name Prescription Drug Product.  
 
What Happens When a Biosimilar Product Becomes Available for a Reference Product?  
 
If a biosimilar becomes available for a reference product (a biological Prescription Drug Product), the tier placement of the 
reference product may change. Therefore, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance may change or the Insured will no longer 
have benefits for that particular reference product.  
 
Designated Pharmacies  
 
If the Insured requires certain Specialty Prescription Drug Products, the Company may direct the Insured to a Designated 
Pharmacy with whom the Company has an arrangement to provide those Specialty Prescription Drug Products.   
 
If the Insured is directed to a Designated Pharmacy and chooses not to obtain their Specialty Prescription Drug Product 
from a Designated Pharmacy, the Insured may opt -out of the Designated Pharmacy program at www.uhcsr.com or by calling 
Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716.   
 
If the Insured opts -out of the program and fills their Specialty Prescription Drug Product at a non -Designated Pharmacy but 
does not inform the Company,  the Insured will be responsible for the entire cost of the Specialty Prescription Drug Product.   
 
For a Specialty Prescription Drug Product, if the Insured chooses to obtain their Specialty Prescription Drug Product at a 
Non-Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, the Insured will be required to pay 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy 
Copayment and/or 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy Coinsurance (up to 50% of the Prescription Drug Charge), not to 
exceed $150 for up to a 30 -day supply, based on the applicable tier.  
 
Specialty Prescription Drug Products  
Benefits are provided for Specialt y Prescription Drug Products.  
 
If the Insured requires Specialty Prescription Drug Products, the Company may direct the Insured to a Designated Pharmacy 
with whom the Company has an arrangement to provide those Specialty Prescription Drug Products.  
 
If the  Insured is directed to a Designated Pharmacy and the Insured has informed the Company of their decision not to 
obtain their Specialty Prescription Drug Product from a Designated Pharmacy, and the Insured chooses to obtain their 
Specialty Prescription Drug  Product at a Non -Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, the Insured will be required to pay 2 
times the retail Network Pharmacy Copayment and/or 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy Coinsurance (up to 50% of the 
Prescription Drug Charge), not to exceed $150  for up to a 30 -day supply, based on the applicable tier.  
 
The Company designates certain Network Pharmacies to be Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacies.  The Company may 
periodically change the Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy designation of a Networ k Pharmacy.  These changes may 
occur without prior notice to the Insured unless required by law.  The Insured may find out whether a Network Pharmacy is 
a Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy at www.uhcsr.com or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Please see the Definitions Section for a full description of Specialty Prescription Drug Product and Designated Pharmacy.  
 
The following supply limits apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Products.  
 
As written by the Physician, up to a consecutive 31 -day supply of a Specialty Prescription Drug Product, unless adjusted 
based on the drug manufacturer’s packaging size, or based on supply limits.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   4 
  
When a Specialty Prescription Drug Product is classified as a Maintenance Medication according to Maryland law and as 
written by the Physician:  
• Up to a consecutive 31 -day supply for a new prescription or a change in prescription of a Specialty Prescription 
Drug Product; and  
• Thereafter; up to a consecutive 90 -day supply of a Specialty Prescription Drug Product subject to a Copayment up 
to 2.5 times the Copayment for a 31 -day supply.  
 
If a Specialty Prescription Drug Pr oduct is provided for less than  or more than a 31 -day supply, the Copayment  and/or 
Coinsurance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed.  
 
Supply limits apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Products obtained at a Preferred Specialty Network P harmacy, a Non -
Preferred Specialty  Network Pharmacy, a mail order Network Pharmacy or a Designated Pharmacy.  
 
Do Notification Requirements  Apply?  
Before certain Prescription Drug Products are dispensed at a Network Pharmacy, either the Insured’s Physician,  Insured’s 
pharmacist or the Insured is required to notify the Company or the Company’s designee. The reason for notifying the 
Company is to determine whether the Prescription Drug Product, in accordance with the Company’s approved guidelines, 
is each of t he following:  
• It meets the definition of a Covered Medical Expense.  
• It is not an Experimental Service.  
 
If the Company is not notified before the Prescription Drug Product is dispensed, the Insured may pay more for that 
Prescription Order or Refill. The P rescription Drug  Products  requiring notification are subject, from time to time, to the 
Company’s review and change. There may be certain Prescription Drug Products that require the Insured to notify the 
Company directly rather than the Insured’s Physician  or pharmacist.  The Insured may determine whether a particular 
Prescription Drug requires notification at www.uhcsr.com or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716.  
 
If the Company is not notified before the Prescription Drug Product is dispensed, th e Insured can ask the Company to 
consider reimbursement after the Insured receives the Prescription Drug Product. The Insured will be required to pay for 
the Prescription Drug Product at the pharmacy.  
 
When the Insured submits a claim on this basis, the I nsured may pay more because they did not notify the Company before 
the Prescription Drug Product was dispensed. The amount the Insured is reimbursed will be based on the Prescription Drug 
Charge, less the required Copayment and/or Coinsurance  and any Deduc tible that applies.  
 
Benefits may not be available for the Prescription Drug Product after the Company reviews the documentation provided and 
determines that the Prescription Drug Product is not a Covered Medical Expense or it is an Experimental Service.  
 
Does Step Therapy  Apply?  
Certain Prescription Drug Products for which benefits are provided are subject to step therapy requirements. In order to 
receive benefits for such Prescription Drug Products an Insured must use a different Prescription Drug Product(s) first.  
 
A step therapy requirement will not be imposed if:  
• The step therapy drug has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the medical 
condition being treated; or  
• The prescribing provider provides supporting medica l information to the Company that a Prescription Drug Product:  
▪ Was ordered by a prescribing provider for the Insured Person within the past 180 days;  
▪ Based on the professional judgement of the prescribing provider, was effective in treating the Insured Per son’s 
medical condition.  
• The Prescription Drug has been approved by the FDA and;  
▪ Is being used to treat the Insured Person’s stage four advanced metastatic cancer; and  
▪ Use of the Prescription Drug is consistent with the FDA -approved indication of the Natio nal Comprehensive Cancer 
Network Drugs & Biologics Compendium indication for the treatment of stage four advanced metastatic cancer; and  
▪ Is supported by peer -reviewed medical literature.  
 
The Insured may find out whether a Prescription Drug Product is subj ect to step therapy requirements at www.uhcsr.com 
or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716 .   
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   5 
 Step Therapy for a Prescription Drug Product is not required when used for the treatment of an opioid use disorder and it 
contains methadone, buprenorphi ne or naltrexone.  
 
When Does the Company Limit  Selection of Pharmacies ? 
If the Company determines that an Insured Person may be using Prescription Drug Products in a harmful or abusive manner, 
or with harmful frequency, the Insured Person’s choice of Netwo rk Pharmacies may be limited. If this happens, the Company 
may require the Insured to choose one Network Pharmacy that will provide and coordinate all future pharmacy services. 
Network benefits will be paid only if the Insured uses the chosen Network Pharm acy. If the Insured does not make a selection 
within 31 days of the date the Company notifies the Insured, the Company will choose a Network Pharmacy for the Insured. 
If the Insured does not use the designated single Network Pharmacy, the benefits will be provided under the out -of-network 
prescription drug benefit.  
 
Coverage Policies and Guidelines  
The Company’s Prescription Drug List (PDL) Management Committee makes tier placement changes on the Company’s 
behalf. The PDL Management Committee places FDA-approved Prescription Drug Products into tiers by considering a 
number of factors including clinical and economic factors. Clinical factors may include review of the place in therapy or use  
as compared to other similar product or services, site of care , relative safety or  effectiveness of the Prescription Drug 
Product, as well as if certain supply limits or notification requirements should apply. Economic factors may include, but are  
not limited to, the Prescription Drug Product’s total cost including any rebates and evaluations on the cost effectiveness of 
the Prescription Drug Product.  
 
The Company may, from time to time, change the placement of a Prescription Drug Product among the tiers. These changes 
generally will happen quarterly, but no more than six times per calendar year. If a drug is removed from the PDL or moved 
to a higher tie r, notice will be provided at least 30 days prior to this change becoming effective.  
 
When considering a Prescription Drug Product for tier placement, the PDL Management Committee reviews clinical and 
economic factors regarding Insured Persons as a genera l population. Whether a particular Prescription Drug Product is 
appropriate for an individual Insured Person is a determination that is made by the Insured Person and the prescribing 
Physician.  
 
NOTE: The tier placement of a Prescription Drug Product may c hange, from time to time, based on the process described 
above. As a result of such changes, the Insured may be required to pay more or less for that Prescription Drug Product. 
Please access www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716 for the most up -to-date tier placement.  
 
Rebates and Other Payments  
The Company may receive rebates for certain drugs included on the Prescription Drug List. The Company does not pass 
these rebates on to the Insured Person, nor are they applied to the Insured’s De ductible or  taken into account in determining 
the Insured’s Copayments and/or Coinsurance.  
 
The Company, and a number of its affiliated entities, conducts business with various pharmaceutical manufacturers 
separate and apart from this Prescription Drug End orsement. Such business may include, but is not limited to, data 
collection, consulting, educational grants and research. Amounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers pursuant to 
such arrangements are not related to this Prescription Drug Benefit. Th e Company is not required to pass on to the Insured, 
and does not pass on to the Insured, such amounts.   
 
Definitions  
Authorized Prescriber has the meaning stated in Section 12 -101 of the Health Occupations Article of the Maryland Code.  
 
Brand -name  means  a Prescription Drug: (1) which is manufactured and marketed under a trademark or name by a specific 
drug manufacturer; or (2) that the Company identifies as a Brand -name product, based on available data resources.  This 
includes data sources such as Medi -Span that classify drugs as either brand or generic based on a number of factors. Not 
all products identified as a "brand name" by the manufacturer, pharmacy, or an Insured’s Physician will be classified as 
Brand -name by the Company.  
 
Chemically Equivalent  means when Prescription Drug Products contain the same active ingredient.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   6 
 Designated Pharmacy  means  a pharmacy that has entered into an agreement with the Company or with an organization 
contracting on the Company’s behalf, to provide specific Prescripti on Drug Products.  This includes Specialty Prescription 
Drug Products. Not all Network Pharmacies are a Designated Pharmacy.  
 
Experimental Services  means medical, dental, surgical, diagnostic, psychiatric, mental health, substance -related and 
addictive dis orders or other health care services, technologies, supplies, treatments, procedures, drug therapies, 
medications, or devices that are not recognized as efficacious as the term is defined in the edition of the Institute of Medi cine 
Report on Assessing Medi cal Technologies that is current when the care is rendered. Experimental services do not include 
Approved Clinical Trials as specifically provided for in the Policy.  
 
Generic  means a Prescription Drug Product: (1) that is Chemically Equivalent to a Brand -name drug; or (2) that the 
Company identifies as a Generic product based on available data resources.  This includes data sources such as Medi -
Span that classify drugs as either brand or generic based on a number of factors. Not all products identified as a "generic" 
by the manufacturer, pharmacy or Insured’s Physician will be classified as a Generic by the Company.  
 
Maintenance Medication  means a Prescription Drug Product expected to be used for six months or more to treat or prevent 
a chronic condition.  The Insured may find out if a Prescription Drug Product is a Maintenance Medication at www.uhcsr.com 
or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-7716.  
 
Network Pharmacy  means a pharmacy that has:  
• Entered into an agreement with the Company or an organization contracting on the Company’s behalf to provide 
Prescription Drug Products to Insured Persons.  
• Agreed to accept specified reimbursement  rates for dispensing Prescription Drug Products.  
• Been designated by the Company as a Network Pharmacy.  
 
New Prescription Drug Product  means a Prescription Drug Product or new dosage form of a previously approved 
Prescription Drug Product, for the period of time starting on the date the Prescription Drug Product or new dosage form is 
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and ending on the earlier of the following dates:  
• The date it is placed on a tier by the Company’s PDL Managemen t Committee.  
• December 31st of the following calendar year.  
 
Non-Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy  means a specialty Network Pharmacy that the Company identifies as a non -
preferred pharmacy within the network.  
 
Out-of-Network Pharmacy  means a pharmacy th at has not been designated by the Company as a Network Pharmacy.  
 
PPACA  means Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.  
 
PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive Care Medications  means the medications that are obtained at a Network Pharmacy 
with a Prescr iption Order or Refill from a Physician and that are payable at 100% of the Prescription Drug Charge (without 
application of any Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible) as required by applicable law under any of the following:  
• Evidence -based items or servic es that have in effect a rating of “A” or “B” in the current recommendations of the 
United States Preventive Services Task Force.  
• With respect to infants, children and adolescents, evidence -informed preventive care and screenings provided for 
in the compre hensive guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration.  
• With respect to women, such additional preventive care and screenings as provided for in comprehensive guidelines 
supported by the Health Resources and Services Administratio n. 
 
The Insured may find out if a drug is a PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive Care Medication as well as information on 
access to coverage of Medically Necessary alternatives at www.uhcsr.com  or by calling Customer Service  at 1-855-828-
7716.   
 
Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy  means a specialty Network Pharmacy that the Company identifies as a preferred 
pharmacy within the network.  
 
Prescription Drug Charge  means the rate the Company has agreed to pay the Network Pharmacies for a Prescription 
Drug Product dispensed at a Network Pharmacy.  The rate includes a dispensing fee and any applicable sales tax.  
 
Prescription Drug List  means a list that places into tiers medications or products that have been approved by the U.S. 
Food and Dr ug Administration. This list is subject to the Company’s review and change from time to time.  The Insured may  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   7 
 find out which tier a particular Prescription Drug Product has been placed at www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service  at 1-
855-828-7716.  
 
Prescrip tion Drug List (PDL) Management Committee  means  the committee that the Company designates for placing 
Prescription Drugs into specific tiers.  
 
Prescription Drug Product  means  a medication or product that has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration and that can, under federal or state law, be dispensed only according to a Prescription Order or Refill. A 
Prescription Drug Product includes a medication that is gene rally appropriate for self -administration or administration by a 
non-skilled caregiver. For the purpose of the benefits under the Policy, this definition includes:  
• Inhalers.   
• Insulin.  
• Certain vaccines/immunizations administered in a Network Pharmacy.  
• Certain injectable medications administered at a Network Pharmacy . 
• The following diabetic supplies:  
▪ standard insulin syringes with needles;  
▪ blood -testing strips - glucose;  
▪ urine -testing strips - glucose;   
▪ ketone -testing strips and tablets;  
▪ lancets and lancet d evices ; and  
▪ glucose meters, including continuous glucose monitors.  
 
Prescription Order or Refill  means the directive to dispense a Prescription Drug Product issued by a Physician whose 
scope of practice permits issuing such a directive.  
 
Specialty Prescrip tion Drug Product  means Prescription Drug Products that are prescribed for an Insured with a complex, 
chronic or rare medical condition that costs $600 or more for up to a 30 -day supply, is not typically stocked at a retail 
pharmacy and requires a difficul t or unusual process of delivery to the patient in the preparation, handling, storage, 
inventory, or distribution of the drug. These Prescription Drug Products require enhanced patient education, management, 
or support, beyond those required for traditiona l dispensing, before or after administration of the drug. Insured Persons may 
access a complete list of Specialty Prescription Drug Products at www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service  at 1-855-828-
7716.   
 
Specialty Prescription Drug Product does not include  a Prescription Drug Product prescribed to treat Diabetes, HIV or AIDS.  
 
Therapeutically Equivalent  means when Prescription Drugs Products have essentially the same efficacy and adverse 
effect profile.  
 
Usual and Customary Fee  means the usual fee that a pharmacy charges individuals for a Prescription Drug Product without 
reference to reimbursement to the pharmacy by third parties. This fee includes a dispensing fee and any applicable sales 
tax. 
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   8 
  
Additional Exclusions  
In addit ion to the Exclusions and Limitations shown in the Certificate of Coverage, the following Exclusions apply:  
1. Coverage for Prescription Drug Products for the amount dispensed (days' supply or quantity limit) which exceeds 
the supply limit.  
2. Coverage for Presc ription Drug Products for the amount dispensed (days’ supply or quantity limit) which is less than 
the minimum supply limit.  
3. Drugs which are prescribed, dispensed or intended for use during an Inpatient stay.  
4. Experimental Services and medications used for Experimental Services for certain diseases except as specifically 
provided in the Policy for Approved Clinical Trials.  
5. Prescription Drug Products furnished by the local, state or federal government.  Any Prescription Drug Product to 
the extent payment or b enefits are provided or available from the local, state or federal government (for example, 
Medicare) whether or not payment or benefits are received, except as otherwise provided by law.  
6. Prescription Drug products for any condition, Injury, Sickness or Me ntal Illness arising out of, or in the course of, 
employment for which benefits are available under any workers’ compensation law or other similar laws, whether 
or not a claim for such benefits is made or payment or benefits are received.  
7. A pharmaceutical product for which benefits are provided in the Certificate of Coverage.  
8. General vitamins, except the following, which require a Prescription Order or Refill:  
• Prenatal vitamins.  
• Vitamins with fluoride.  
• Single entity vitamins.  
9. Certain unit dose packaging or repackagers of Prescription Drug Products.  
10. Compounded drugs that do not contain at least one ingredient that has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and requires a Prescription Order or Refill.  Compounded drugs that contain a non -FDA 
approved bulk chemical. Compounded drugs that are available as a similar commercially available Prescription 
Drug Product. (Compounded drugs that contain at least one ingredient that requires a Prescription Order or Refill 
are placed on Tier -3.) 
11. Drugs available over -the-counter that do not require a Prescription Order or Refill by federal or state law before 
being dispensed, unless the Company has designated the over -the-counter medication as eligible for coverage as 
if it were a Prescription Drug Produ ct and it is obtained with a Prescription Order or Refill from a Physician.  
Prescription Drug Products that are available in over -the-counter form or made up of components that are available 
in over -the-counter form or equivalent.  Certain Prescription Dr ug Products that the Company has determined are 
Therapeutically Equivalent to an over -the-counter drug or supplement.  Such determinations may be made up to 
six times during a calendar year.  The Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a P rescription Drug 
Product that was previously excluded under this provision. This exclusion does not apply to FDA approved over -
the-counter contraceptives that do not require a prescription. Please access www.uhcsr.com or call Customer 
Service at 1-855-828-7716 for more information on which over -the-counter drugs are excluded.  
12. Note: Notwithstanding this exclusion, we will provide immediate coverage for excluded Prescription Drug Products 
described above if, in the judgement of the Authorized Prescr iber: 
• The over -the-counter drug is not equivalent to the Prescription Drug Product on the Prescription Drug List; 
or 
• An equivalent over -the-counter drug:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reaction or other harm to the Insured.  
13. Outpatient orthomolecular therapy, including nutrients, vitamins and food supplements.  
14. Prescription Drug Products not included on Tier – 1 ,2, or 3 of the Prescription Drug List at the time the Prescr iption 
Order or Refill is dispensed. Please access  www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716 for more 
information for Prescription Drug Products not included on Tier – 1 ,2, or 3 of the Prescription Drug List.  
Note: We will provide immediate  coverage for a Prescription Drug Product if, in the judgement of the Authorized 
Prescriber:  
• There is no equivalent Prescription Drug Product on Tier – 1 ,2, or 3 of the Prescription Drug List; or  
• An equivalent Prescription Drug Product on Tier – 1 ,2, or 3 of the Prescription Drug List:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured Person’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reaction or other harm to the Insured Person.  
15. A Prescription Drug Product that contains (an) active ingredient(s) available in and Therapeutically Equivalent to 
another covered Prescription Drug Product. Such determinations may be made up to six times during a calendar 
year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was previously 
excluded under this provision. Please access www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716 for more 
information on which Prescription Drug Products are classified as Therapeutically Equivalent.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   9 
 Note: We will provide imme diate coverage for a Prescription Drug Product deemed Therapeutically Equivalent if, in 
the judgement of the Authorized Prescriber:  
• The excluded Prescription Drug Product is not Therapeutically Equivalent to the other covered Prescription 
Drug Product; or  
• The covered Prescription Drug Product on the Prescription Drug List:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured Person’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reaction or other harm to the Insured Person.  
16. A Prescription Dru g Product that contains (an) active ingredient(s) which is (are) a modified version of and 
Therapeutically Equivalent to another covered Prescription Drug Product. Such determinations may be made up to 
six times during a calendar year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription 
Drug that was previously excluded under this provision. Please access www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service 
at 1-855-828-7716 for more information on which Prescription Drug Products are classifi ed as Therapeutically 
Equivalent.  
Note: We will provide immediate coverage for a Prescription Drug Product deemed Therapeutically Equivalent if, in 
the judgement of the Authorized Prescriber:  
• The excluded Prescription Drug Product is not Therapeutically Eq uivalent to the other covered Prescription 
Drug Product; or  
• The covered Prescription Drug Product on the Prescription Drug List:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured Person’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reac tion or other harm to the Insured Person.  
17. Certain Prescription Drug Products for which there are Therapeutically Equivalent alternatives available, unless 
otherwise required by law or approved by the Company.  Such determinations may be made up to six time s during 
a calendar year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was 
previously excluded under this provision. Please access www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service at 1-855-828-
7716 for more information on  which Prescription Drug Products are classified as Therapeutically Equivalent.  
Note: We will provide immediate coverage for a Prescription Drug Product deemed Therapeutically Equivalent if, in 
the judgement of the Authorized Prescriber:  
• The excluded Presc ription Drug Product is not Therapeutically Equivalent to the other covered Prescription 
Drug Product; or  
• The covered Prescription Drug Product on the Prescription Drug List:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured Person’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reaction or other harm to the Insured Person.  
18. A Prescription Drug Product with either:  
• An approved biosimilar.   
• A biosimilar and Therapeutically Equivalent to another covered Prescription Drug Prod uct.   
• For the purpose of this exclusion a “biosimilar” is a biological Prescription Drug Product approved based 
on both of the following   
• It is highly similar to a reference product (a biological Prescription Drug Product).  
• It  has no clinically meaningf ul differences in terms of safety and effectiveness from the reference product.  
Such determinations may be made up to six times during a calendar year. The Company may decide at any time to 
reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was previously exc luded under this provision. Please access 
www.uhcsr.com or call Customer Service at 1 -855-828-7716  for more information on which Prescription Drug 
Products are classified as Therapeutically Equivalent.  
Note: We will provide immediate coverage for a Prescri ption Drug Product deemed Therapeutically Equivalent if, in 
the judgement of the Authorized Prescriber:  
• The excluded Prescription Drug Product is not Therapeutically Equivalent to the other covered Prescription 
Drug Product; or  
• The covered Prescription Dru g Product on the Prescription Drug List:  
▪ Has been ineffective in treating the Insured Person’s disease or condition; or  
▪ Has caused or is likely to cause an adverse reaction or other harm to the Insured Person.  
19. Prescription Drug Products as a replacement for a previously dispensed Prescription Drug Product that was lost, 
stolen, broken or destroyed.  
20. Durable medical equipment, including certain insulin pumps and related supplies for the management and treatment 
of diabetes, for which benefits ar e provided in the Policy.  
21. Diagnostic kits and products, including associated services.  
22. Publicly available software applications and/or monitors that may be available with or without a Prescription Order 
or Refill.  
23. Certain Prescription Drug Products that ar e FDA approved as a package with a device or application, including 
smart package sensors and/or embedded drug sensors. This exclusion does not apply to a device or application 
that assists the Insured Person with the administration of a Prescription Drug Product.  
  
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   10 
 Right to Request an Exclusion Exception  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is excluded from coverage, the Insured Person or the Insured’s representative may 
request an exception to gain access to the excluded Prescription Drug Product. To make a r equest, contact the Company 
in writing or call 1-800-767-0700 . The Company will notify the Insured Person of the Company’s determination within 72 
hours.  
 
Please note, if the request for an exception is approved, the Insured may be responsible for paying the applicable 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance based on the Prescription Drug Product tier placement, or at the highest tier as described 
in the Schedule of Benefits.  
 
Urgent Requests  
 
If the Insured Person’s request requires immediate action and a delay could significantly increase the risk to the Insured 
Person’s health, or the ability to regain maximum function, call the Company as soon as possible. The Company will provide 
a written or electronic determination within 24 hours.  
 
External Review  
 
If the Insured Person is not satisfied with the Company’s determination of the exclusion exception request, the Insured 
Person may be entitled to request an external review. The Insured Person or the Insured Person’s representative may 
request an external r eview by sending a written request to the Company at the address set out in the determination letter 
or by calling 1-800-767-0700 . The Independent Review Organization (IRO)  will notify the Insured Person of the 
determination within 72 hours.  
 
Expedited Ext ernal Review  
 
If the Insured Person is not satisfied with the Company’s determination of the exclusion exception request and it involves 
an urgent situation, the Insured Person or the Insured’s representative may request an expedited external review by cal ling 
1-800-767-0700 or by sending a written request to the address set out in the determination letter. The IRO will notify the 
Insured Person of the determination within 24 hours.  
 
OUT -OF-NETWORK PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS  
 
Benefits are available at an Ou t-of-Network Pharmacy for Prescription Drugs as specified in the Schedule of Benefits subject 
to all terms of the Policy and as specified below:  
 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance Amount  
For Prescription Drug Products at an Out -of-Network Pharmacy, Insured Pers ons are responsible for paying the lower of:  
• The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance ; or 
• The prescription drug cost for that Prescription Drug Product.  
 
For Prescription Drug Products from a mail order Out -of-Network Pharmacy, Insured Persons are responsible for paying 
the lower of:  
• The applicable  Copayment and/or Coinsurance; or  
• The prescription  drug cost for that Prescription Drug Product.  
 
The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance will never be greater than the retail or mail order cost of the Prescription 
Drug.  
   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   11 
  
Supply Limits  
Benefits for Prescription Drug Products are subject to supply limits as written by the Physician and the supply limits that a re 
stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits, unless adjusted based on the drug manufacture r’s packaging size. For a single 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance, the Insured may receive a Prescription Drug Product up to the stated supply limit.  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is classified as a Maintenance Medication according to Maryland law and as w ritten by 
the Physician, the following supply limits apply;  
• Up to a consecutive  31-day supply for a new prescription or a change in prescription of a Prescription Drug Product; 
and 
• Thereafter, up to a consecutive 90 -day supply of a Prescription Drug Produc t subject to a Copayment up to 2.5 
times the Copayment and/or Coinsurance for a 31 -day supply.  
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is packaged or designed to deliver in a manner that provides more than a consecutive 
31-day supply, the Copayment and/or Coinsu rance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed  , however, this 
does not apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Pharmaceutical Products or a drug prescribed to treat diabetes, HIV, or AIDS 
that provide one dose that provides treatment for more t han 30 - days . 
 
When prescriptions are filled at pharmacies outside a Network Pharmacy, the Insured must pay for the Prescription Drugs 
out of pocket and submit the receipts for reimbursement as described in the How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness 
Benefits section in the Certificate o f Coverage.   
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   1 
 UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT  
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
the terms and conditions of the Policy not inconsistent therewith.  
 
 
 
President  
 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amende d as follows:  
 
 
Travel and Lodging Program  
 
This Policy Endorsement provides an Insured Person with a travel and lodging allowance related to Covered Medical 
Expenses that are not available in the state where the Named Insured is attending school due to la w or regulation when 
such services are received in another state, as legally permissible.  
 
Because this Endorsement is part of a legal document (the Master Policy), We want to provide information about the 
document that will help the Insured Person underst and it. Certain capitalized words have special meanings. We have 
defined these words in the Certificate of Coverage in Section 9: Definitions.  
 
When we use the words "We," "Us," and "Our" in this document, we are referring to UnitedHealthcare Insurance Com pany.  
 
Travel and Lodging Program  
 
The Travel and Lodging Program  provides support for the Insured Person under the Policy as described above. The program 
provides an allowance for travel and lodging expenses for an Insured Person and travel companion when  the Insured 
Person must travel at least 100 miles from the local school campus the Named Insured is attending, as reflected in our 
records, to receive the Covered Medical Expenses.  
 
This program provides an allowance for incurred travel and lodging expenses only and is independent of any existing 
medical coverage available for the Insured Person. An allowance limited to $ 2,000 per Insured Person per Policy Year will 
be provided for travel and lodging expenses incurred as a part of the Covered Medical  Expenses. Lodging expenses are 
further limited to $50 per night for the Insured Person, or $100 per night for the Insured Person with a travel companion . 
 
Travel expenses covered under the allowance are for:  
• Personal vehicle fuel fee.  
• Rental car and fuel fee.  
• Taxis and standard Uber and Lyft rides (limos and car services are not covered).  
• Airfare (economy or coach only).  
• Parking.  
• Trains.  
• Boat.  
• Bus.  
• Tolls.  
 
Travel expenses not covered under the allowance are for:  
• Groceries.  
• Alcoholic beverages.  
• Person al or cleaning supplies.  
• Meals.  
• Over -the-counter dressings or medical supplies.  
 
COL -17-MD (PY 23) END RX   2 
 • Deposits.  
• Utilities and furniture rental, when billed separate from the rent payment.  
• Phone calls, newspapers and movie rentals.  
 
Please remember to save travel and lodging rec eipts to submit for reimbursement. If the Insured would like additional 
information regarding the Travel and Lodging Program, contact Us at www.uhcsr.com or the telephone number on your 
identification (ID) card.  
 
 
  
 NDLAP -FO-001 (2 -23) 
 NON -DISCRIMINATION NOTICE  
 
UnitedHealthcare Student  Resources does not treat members differently because of sex, age, race, color, disability or 
national origin.  
 
If you think you were treated unfairly because of your sex, age, race, color, disability or national origin, you can send a 
complaint to:  
 
 Civil Rights Coordinator  
 United HealthCare Civil Rights Grievance  
 P.O. Box 30608  
 Salt Lake City, UTAH 84130  
 UHC_Civil_Rights@uhc.com  
 
You must send the written complaint wit hin 60 days of when you found out about it.  A decision will be sent to you within 
30 days.  If you disagree with the decision, you have 15 days to ask us to look at it again.   
 
If you need help with your complaint, please call the toll -free member phone number listed on your health plan ID card, 
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ET.  
 
You can also file a complaint with the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services.  
 
 Online  https://ocrporta l.hhs.gov/ocr/portal/lobby.jsf  
 
 Complaint forms are available at http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/office/file/index.html . 
 
 Phone: Toll -free 1 -800-368-1019, 800 -537-7697 (TDD)  
 
 Mail:  U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services. 200 Independence Avenue, SW  
 Room 509F, HHH Building Washington, D.C. 20201  
 
We also provide free services to help you communicate with us. Such as, lette rs in other languages or large print. Or, you 
can ask for free language services such as speaking with an interpreter. To ask for help, please call the toll -free member 
phone number listed on your health plan ID card, Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m . ET.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
POLICY NUMBER: 2023 -2071 -91 
 
NOTICE:  
The benefits contained within have been revised since publication. The revisions are included 
within the body of the document, and are summarized on the last page of the document for 
ease of reference.  
 
NOC3 - 11/13/2023  
NOC3 11/13/2023  
Policy: NA  
 
Certificate:  
Added below to SHC/UHC paragraph on the SOB Header:  
Labs referred by the SHC to Quest/LabCorp will be paid at 100%.  
 
Summary Brochure NA  
 
NOC2 - 08/25/2023  
NOC2 8/25/2023  
Policy: NA  
 
Certificate:  
Added Travel and Lodging Program Endorsement (COL -17-MD (PY23) END TLP)  
 
Summary Brochure: NA  
 
NOC1 - 08/23/2023  
NOC1 8/23/2023  
Policy: NA  
 
Certificate:  
SOB column labeled "University Health Center (UHC) Benefits" any wording referring to "afte r Deductible" 
changed to "not subject to Deductible"  
 
Summary Brochure: NA  
 